# Strathmore University Governance and Information ## Governance/Administration Strathmore University is a fully fledged university with a Vice Chancellor, three Deputy Vice Chancellors, the University Secretary, a number of senior management staff, the University Council, the Management Board, the Academic Council, and various committees. ### Legal Status On April 23rd, 2008, His Excellency Mwai Kibaki, President of the Republic of Kenya granted a Charter to Strathmore University.

The Charter provides for the establishment, control, governance, and administration of the university and for connected purposes, in the manner prescribed by the Universities Act (Chapter 210b, Laws of Kenya). Strathmore University is sponsored by Strathmore Educational Registered Trustees (SERT), a non-profit body corporate with perpetual succession, established under the Trustee (Perpetual Succession) Act (Chapter 164 of the Revised Laws of Kenya 1962 edition).

### Legal Requirements - Trust Deed - Strathmore University Charter ### Chancellor Monsignor Fernando Ocriz Braa is the Chancellor of Strathmore University as prescribed by Section 10 of the Strathmore University Charter. He was born in Paris in 1944 and studied Physical Sciences at the University of Barcelona. He graduated in Theology from the Pontifical Lateran University in 1969 and obtained his PhD from the University of Navarra in 1971. That same year he was ordained a priest.

He is the author of numerous philosophical and theological works such as The Mystery of Jesus Christ (Theology Textbooks, 1998) and God as Father: In the Message of Blessed Josemaria Escriva (1998) among others. He has also been a consultant to the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith since 1986 and a member of the Pontifical Roman Theological Academy since 1989.

### Council Members - **Bernadette Musundi** - Chairperson - **Dr. Charles Sotz** - Vice-Chair - **Dr. Vincent Ogutu** - Secretary - **Prof. Susan Kibue** - Member - **Prof. Albert Mumma** - Member - **Mr. David Owino** - Member - **Mrs. Edith Siddondo** - Member - **Dr. Dorothy Mwaura** - Member - **Dr. Elizabeth Gachenga** - Ex-officio Member - **Dr. Edward Mungai** - Ex-officio Member - **Prof. Izael Pereira Da Silva** - Ex-officio Member - **Mr. Anthony Kahindi** - Ex-officio Member ##

University Management - **Dr. Vincent Ogutu** - Vice Chancellor - **Mr. Anthony Kahindi** - University Secretary - **Dr. Elizabeth Gachenga** - Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic & Students Affairs) - **Prof. Izael Da Silva** - Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research) - **Dr. Edward Mungai** - Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Partnerships and Development) - **Mrs. Anna Makomu-Njuguna** - Executive Director, People and Culture - **Mr. Vincent Ndoloka** - Executive Director, Finance - **Dr. Betty Ngala** - Executive

Director, Corporate Communications ### University Directors | Name | Office | |------|--------| | Prof. Bernard Shibwabo | Director, Office of Graduate Studies | | Mr. Eric Saulo | Director, Partnerships & Internationalization | | Ms. Angelica Kiboro | Principal, Strathmore Institute of Management and Technology | | Mrs. Anna Makomu-Njuguna | Executive Director, People and Culture | | Dr. Betty Ngala | Executive Director, University Relations & Communications Office | | Mr. Marcos Migeri |

Director, Admissions Services | | Mr. Luis Borrallo | Director, Community Service Centre | | Mr. Elias Kaburu | Director, Alumni Relations | | Mr. Stephen Momanyi | Director, Information & Communication Technology Department | | Mrs. Grace Kamengere – Wachira | Director, University Health Services | | Mrs. Jackline Chibai | Director, Strategy & Quality Assurances | | Brg.

(rtd) Joseph Mweu | Director, Security Services | | Mr. Bernard Shiundu | University Librarian | | Dr. John Mutisya | Director, Mentoring Services | | Dr. Joseph Sevilla | Director, @ilab Africa | | Dr. Churchill Saoke | Director, Strathmore Energy Research Centre | | Dr. Melissa Omino | Director, Centre for Intellectual Property and Information Technology Law (CIPIT) | ### Deans | Name | Office | |------|--------| | Dr. Caesar Mwangi | Dean, Strathmore Business School | | Eng.

Dr. Julius Butime | Dean, School of Computing and Engineering Sciences | | Dr. Godfrey Madigu | Dean, Strathmore Institute of Mathematical Sciences | | Dr. Jane Wathuta | Dean, Strathmore Law School | | Dr. David Chiawo | Dean, School Tourism and Hospitality | | Dr. Magdalene Dimba | Dean, School of Humanities & Social Sciences | | Mr. Paul Ochieng | Dean of Students | | Ms. Angelica Kiboro | Principal, Strathmore Institute of Management and Technology | ## Opus Dei Strathmore University is a

Other initiatives include, but are not limited to, training centres for farm workers, medical dispensaries and hospitals and schools that cater for the under-privileged in society. These undertakings have the official moral guarantee of the Prelature in all matters to do with their Christian orientation.

For more information on the Prelature of Opus Dei, visit www.opusdei.or.ke For more information on St. Josemaria Escriva, visit www.josemariaescriva.net ## Clubs in Strathmore - French club - German Club - Hospitality and Tourism Students Society - HATTS - Japanese Club - KMUN - Mental Health Club - Presidential Awards Club - Readers and Writers Club - SASS - Spanish Club - Strathmore Business Club - Strathmore Envronmental and Sustainability Club - Strathmore Marketing Club - Strathmore Red

Meanwhile, in January 1991, the Information Technology Centre was started in the Lavington Campus to run computer courses leading to the Institute for the Management of Information Systems (formerly Institute of Data Processing Management) Diploma and Higher Diploma. In January 1992 a Distance Learning Centre was opened to offer correspondence courses in Accountancy to students who are unable to attend lectures.

Embracing global perspectives, we welcome students from across the world, with 11% of our student population representing international communities. ### Key Milestones In August 2002 the Commission of Higher Education awarded Strathmore a Letter of Interim Authority to operate as a University with a Faculty of Commerce and a Faculty of Information Technology.

- **2016**: @iLabAfrica is launched to spearhead ICT Research, Innovation, and Entrepreneurship with a mission of providing an environment that promotes technology innovation and business support structure and policy. The centre also houses @iBizAfrica, a business incubator for young entrepreneurs. - **2019**: School of Management and Commerce (SMC) merges with the Business School to form the Strathmore University Business School (SBS).

- **2020**: The University launched the Institute of Management and Technology (formerly School of Accountancy) to re-align with TVET Act 2013. - **2021**: Strathmore University Foundation Launch. - **2022**: Faculty of Information Technology merges with the new engineering school to form the School of Computing and Engineering Sciences (SCES). ## Partnerships ### Enel Foundation Enel Foundation is a non-profit organization established in 2012 by Enel, an Italian multinational energy company.

The foundation's mission is to drive changes through knowledge creation and sharing to help solve the greatest challenges of our time in the energy and climate domains. Enel Foundation's work has had a significant impact on the energy and climate landscape. The foundation's research has helped to inform policy makers and businesses about the challenges and opportunities of the energy transition.

### SAP Africa SAP Africa and Kenya's Strathmore University announced a partnership on a job creation program under the SAP Skills for Africa Initiative today. Dubbed the SAP Dual Study Program, the initiative has awarded scholarships to thirty students towards the globally recognized SAP Associate Financial Consultant certification. ### I&M Bank I&M granted full-four-year scholarships to the School of Finance and Applied Economics (SFAE) faculty in 2014.

I&M has been awarding scholarship grants under a four-year gap duration period, gaining ground in meshing the amiable relationship it has with the school. This initiative has ensured that outstanding students from destitute backgrounds do not miss out on quality education at Strathmore University, in the fields such as actuarial science, finance, and financial economics.

### IESE Business School Strathmore Business School MBA participants together with Lagos Business School's MBA participants will be leaving to join fellow MBA students at IESE Business School, Spain, a leading global business school for a one-week Pan-African Module which is scheduled to begin on Monday, 26th September 2016.

### Lagos Business School Lagos Business School, a key partner of Strathmore Business School received double accreditation from the Advanced Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and the International Accreditation Advisory Board of the Association of MBAs (AMBA). AACSB is the leading global accreditation body for business schools offering undergraduate, master's, and doctorate degrees in business and accounting.

AACSB involves a process of rigorous internal review, evaluation, and adjustment, which can take several years to complete. ### Association of African Universities (AAU) The Association of African Universities (AAU) is a pan-African organization that brings together universities and other institutions of higher education in Africa.

It was founded in 1967 with the aim of promoting cooperation and collaboration among African universities, as well as to improve the quality of higher education in Africa. ### Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU) The Association of Commonwealth Universities (ACU) is an international organization that brings together universities and other institutions of higher education in the Commonwealth of Nations. It was founded in 1913, and is headquartered in London, England.

The ACU has over 500 member institutions in 50 countries across the Commonwealth. These institutions represent a wide range of disciplines, and together they educate over 10 million students. ### International Association of Universities (IAU) The International Association of Universities (IAU) is a membership-led non-governmental organization working in the field of higher education. It comprises more than 600 higher education institutions and organizations in over 130 countries.

IAU is an official partner of UNESCO. The IAU secretariat is based in Paris and is located at the headquarters of UNESCO. ### Annual Investment Meeting (AIM Congress) The Annual Investment Meeting (AIM Congress) is an Initiative of the AIM Global Foundation, an Independent International Organization fully committed to empower the World's Economy by boosting effective Promotion Strategies and facilitating Opportunities for Economic Productivity and Expansion.

## Coat of Arms, Mission, Vision & Values ### Motto **Ut omnes unum sint** (That all may be one) ### Symbols **The Three Hearts** represent the three races which, in 1961 when the University started, were segregated in the colonial system of education. The heart represents the person since it is taken as the source of all our actions, and the source of love. The fact that the three hearts all have the same color shows the equality of all people and their aim to love and understand each other.

At the beginning, it clearly pointed at the target of racial unity. Today it symbolizes the common aim of parents, teachers, and students in the educational process of Strathmore. **The Rose** in full bloom represents love, the source of all good desires and actions, even if at times this means loving sacrifice, as represented by the thorns. The rose has a supernatural meaning too. Love, with capital letters, is the love of God.

The rose also has a historical meaning associated with the life of Saint Josemara Escriv, founder of Opus Dei, who inspired and encouraged the people who started Strathmore: he once received a divine sign in the form of a carved gilded rose in a very trying moment of his life. **The Lion** is the symbol of strength and courage and of the determined fight for excellence and justice.

It also represents Kenya, the country Strathmore was founded in, which like many African countries strives boldly to attain all the qualities mentioned above. ### Colors and Their Meanings - **Yellow (Gold)**: Gold means eternity, perfection. - **Blue (Azure)**: Sky blue means high ideals, high aims. - **Red (Gules)**: Blood red means sacrifice, love, fortitude.

- **Excellence**: Through the sanctification of work, we strive for work excellence and the highest-quality output. - **Life-long Learning**: We develop programmes and adapt teaching methods that equip learners with skills and tools for innovation and adaptability, and personal development. - **Freedom and Responsibility**: We respect the freedom of the individual person and acknowledge that with freedom comes responsibility.

## Key Strategic Pillars ### Transformative Student Experience Strathmore University continues to provide students with a continuum of diverse opportunities for intellectual, spiritual, and personal development extending well beyond the classroom to ensure that students achieve the maximum benefit of a Strathmore University education.

Through this, we aim to be the partner of choice for all institutions seeking to do research and innovate in Africa. ### Service to Society Our key goal in this pillar is to engage staff, students, alumni, and stakeholders in addressing ethical and societal challenges which contribute to SDG 1, which is to eradicate poverty.

### Transformative Staff Experience We believe that the foundation of our success is grounded in the dedication and passion of our staff towards the mission and vision of the University. This additional pillar envisages a supportive, developmental environment and culture in a community in which every member of the University is enabled to achieve his/her full potential and support the key objectives of the University strategy.

This pillar builds progressively on the University's values, and responds to the priorities of our University, as we seek to support our people in delivering the University's Strategy 2020-2025. ## Vice Chancellor's Office At its core, the VC blog aims to inspire, empower and create a ripple effect of impact within Strathmore University and beyond.

By offering a platform for the Vice Chancellor to share his insights and engage with students and staff, the blog will highlight different initiatives carried out to foster sustainability. ### About the Vice Chancellor Dr. Vincent Ogutu is the Vice-Chancellor of Strathmore University. He self-identifies as a teacher and is a Lecturer in Organisational Behaviour, Leadership, Social Entrepreneurship and Innovation.

He is passionate about inspiring students at all levels to realise their potential for personal growth and social impact. He has given a TEDx talk at IESE Business School, Barcelona urging people to commit to the cause that "has their name written on it." He also uses television and social media as a platform to challenge people in the areas of leadership, entrepreneurship, creativity, talent development, and social impact.

Prior to his vice-chancellor role at the University, Dr. Ogutu was the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Planning & Development), where he was charged with oversight of the University's strategy, fundraising, alumni relations, development projects and community outreach. He has also been the Vice Dean for Executive Talent Development at Strathmore University Business School, and the Director of the regional academies in Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania.

He was the Founding Director of the MBA for Executives Programme at SBS and led the Programme in its first three years. Before working at SBS, he was the Deputy Principal of Strathmore School where he fell in love with the teaching vocation and discovered how much of a difference it can make in people's lives. Dr. Ogutu has a Ph.D in Organisational Management from Rutgers University, an MSc in Financial Economics from the University of London and a BA in Economics from the University of Nairobi.

He undertook his doctoral studies full time in the United States on a Fulbright Scholarship. His research is on the Psychology of meaningful work and meaningful lives. He uses this knowledge to help organisations create meaningful work environments, and to help individuals to discover their path in life. He also uses it to uplift demographics that usually find their lives to be devoid of purpose (like prisoners and terminally ill patients).

While in the US, Dr. Vincent also focused on social entrepreneurship and innovation. He was one of seven moonshot pioneers chosen to present his tech idea on teleportation simulation at Google in New York in a Google NJ Solve for X competition. An accidental by-product of that Google adventure was the creation of his own step-by-step system for innovation that allows ordinary people to think outside the box and innovate. He dubbed it "The Innovation Algorithm".

He has been invited to teach it in Kenya, Uganda, the US, Germany and Uruguay. Dr. Ogutu led Deloitte USA's cybersecurity team on a discussion of the psychological elements of security breaches. He was part of LaunchNJ, a team of professionals creating an ecosystem of entrepreneurs in NJ similar to the Silicon Valley dynamic.

He is now a champion of the Kenyan entrepreneurial ecosystem and has given keynote speeches at incubators and accelerators like iBizAfrica, the Nairobi Garage, Transformational Business Network and Amani Institute. He has given design-thinking workshops for organisations and networks of innovators like Strathmore Energy and Resource Center and Mirazi.

He has also been a judge at entrepreneurial competitions organised by the Somo Project, and also the Women in Tech program of Standard Chartered Bank and iBizAfrica. He currently sits on the boards of Strathmore University Foundation, B Lab East Africa (certifying companies for their social impact), Nafisika Trust (teaching entrepreneurial skills to prisoners), and is an advisor to several start-ups in Kenya and the US.

Dr. Vincent is passionate about getting businesses and individuals to use creativity and social innovation as a force for good. Contact Dr. Ogutu: vc@strathmore.edu ### Vice Chancellor's New Year Message Happy New Year everyone, and best wishes for 2025! I came back to the office this morning and was thrilled to meet so many of you who just wanted to say hello. What a fine way to begin experiencing Strathmore University's theme for 2025, "Personalised Attention."

This year's theme is a call to create an environment where every individual feels valued, supported, and empowered. Rooted in a human-centered approach, this theme reflects our commitment to providing customized service and care to all members of our community. At the core of this value, is the idea our Founder, St. Josemaria, had – that each person is unique, deserving of dignity, respect, and opportunities to flourish.

When once asked whom he valued most at a university – whether a professor or a cleaner – he replied that he didn't actually know. He said it would ultimately depend on who put more love in his or her work. In today's fast-paced world, where utilitarian mindsets often prevail, we are frequently conditioned to view others through the lens of what they can offer us – often defined by the question, "What's in it for me?"

The essence of personalised attention directly challenges this mentality, urging us to recognise the inherent value in every person. Whether the person we're serving can reciprocate or not won't matter to us. We would be pleased to serve them well all the same. As we embrace this theme, our focus is on cultivating a culture of excellence characterised by intentionality, attention to detail, and empathy.

A lecturer, for example, cannot view students merely as names on a register, but as individuals capable of thriving under his or her guidance. Listening to students' feedback, incorporating their insights, and adapting our teaching and services are integral to creating a learning environment that helps them attain their fullest potential. For our students, personalised attention is not only about receiving care – it also involves active engagement on your part.

You are definitely more digital savvy than the rest of us, but I challenge you to regularly step away from the digital noise and invest time in meaningful interactions with your peers, faculty, and the broader university community. A friend of mine recently challenged me to take a digital fast one day per week – we'll see about that!

Research has shown, however, that bonds formed during university years often evolve into life-long relationships that continue to impact one's personal and professional life. So reach out to someone, give them your full attention, then watch what happens. I encourage each department (and each individual) to reflect on how they can bring this theme to life in their work – whether through their engagement with parents, suppliers, sponsors, donors, or any of our collaborators.

If we fully embrace personalised attention, Strathmore will become that one place we all look forward to coming to. You will not be surprised to get a quick reply to a query, and you will be welcomed with a smile when you go to make a request. As the one serving others, you will not dread having problems presented to you. And you will also enjoy the fact that people don't take you for granted and they actually come back to say thank you!

It is therefore important that students embrace the professional branding guidelines as part of their day-to-day living as this will make their transition to the workplace smooth. 3. **What is the role of the fashion assistants? ** The Fashion assistants at the University assist with the implementation of the University professional branding guidelines. They are mandated with guiding students who may miss the mark with regard to adherence to the policy. 4.

**As a student, how do I know what is appropriate as per the Students Professional branding guidelines Policy? ** The student handbook gives guidance on the approved professional branding guidelines.

The following videos are also useful: - Dressing guidelines for female students: https://youtu.be/XSRk1ZLxEtI - Dressing Guidelines for male students: https://youtu.be/lBZgPguAK4c - Where to buy affordable official clothing: https://youtu.be/T6F91Pc34Oo ## University Relations and Communications Department The University Relations and Communications Department is the strategic hub for fostering and maintaining positive relationships between the university and its stakeholders, including

students, faculty, staff, alumni, donors, and the broader community. This dynamic department is dedicated to enhancing the university's reputation, promoting its mission and values, and ensuring effective internal and external communication. ### Corporate identity Strathmore University's visual identity has been shaped by the impressions and associations our students, colleagues and other stakeholders have about us.

The University's brand values are: - To show we are brave, supportive and authentic in all that we do - Display the highest academic, professional and ethical standards - Take pride in our heritage and commitment to make a difference - Real world impact in all that we do. ### Visual identity We have clear guidelines for the use of our logo. The University's guidelines can be downloaded via the links below.

- Logo and font guidelines - Third party, co-branding and partnership guidelines ### Working with organizations External organisations that require the University's logo for use on their materials should contact the University's communications team. Kindly note that any application of the University's logo must be approved by the University Relations and Communications Office.

Kindly email: communications@strathmore.edu ### Contact information - For assistance with event planning, contact (Anne Linda Kinanu) akinanu@strathmore.edu or (Barbara Omondi) baomondi@strathmore.edu - For livestreaming support and other video production and photography requests, contact (Victor Anyura) vanyura@strathmore.edu - For special design requests, contact (Victor Nderitu) vnderitu@strathmore.edu - For social media support and articles, contact (Jemmy Kamau) kjemmy@strathmore.edu - For

corporate publications support, contact (Briege Mwangi) bwmwangi@strathmore.edu - For website support, contact (Kiprotich Brian) bkiprotich@strathmore.edu ### Main university logos - [Strathmore University](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/MAIN-LOGOS-20241205T131450Z-001.zip) - [School of Humanities and Social Sciences (SHSS)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/SHSS-Logos-20241205T131452Z-001.zip) - [Office of Graduate Studies

(OGS)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/SGS_LOGOS.zip) - [School of Computing and Engineering Sciences](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/SCES-Logos-20241205T131450Z-001.zip) - [Strathmore Institute of Management and Technology (SI)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/SI-Brand.zip) - [School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/STH-Logos-20241205T131501Z-001.zip) - [Strathmore Law School

(SLS)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/SLS-Logos-20241205T131457Z-001.zip) - [Strathmore Business School (SBS)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/04/SBS-Logos-20250425T100812Z-001.zip) - [Strathmore Institute of Mathematical Sciences (SIMS)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2024/12/SIMS-Logos-20241205T131454Z-001.zip) ### Research Centers and Institutes Logos - [Strathmore Energy Research Centre

(SERC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Strathmore-Energy-Research-Centre-Logo.zip) - [Strathmore Research and Consultancy Centre (SRCC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/SRCC-Brand.zip) - [Writing Centre](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2025/03/Writing-Centre-Logos.zip) - [Strathmore Enterprise Development Centre (SEDC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/SEDC_LOGOS.zip) - [Strathmore Tax Research Centre

(STRC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/STRC_LOGOS.zip) - [Strathmore Extractives Industry Centre (SEIC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/SEIC_LOGOS.zip) - [Centre for Intellectual Property and Information Technology Law (CIPIT)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/CIPIT_LOGOS.zip) - [Centre for Biodiversity Information Development (BID-C)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/BID-C-logos.zip) - [Strathmore Dispute Resolution Centre

(SDRC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/SDRC_LOGOS.zip) - [@iBizAfrica Centre](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/@iBizAfrica_Logos.zip) - [@iLabAfrica Centre](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/@iLabAfrica_Logos.zip) - [Strathmore Institute for Advanced Studies in International Criminal Justice (SIASIC)](https://strathmore.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/SIASIC_LOGOS.zip) ## University Forms ### Strathmore Model Nomination Form This form allows

individuals to nominate themselves or others to become a Strathmore model for university media. - Fields include: First Name, Middle Name, Last Name, Phone Number, Email Address, School/Faculty, Upload your selfie, Date of the shoot, Select category (Video/Photo) ### Strathmore Media Permit Form This form is for external media organizations wishing to conduct shoots on campus.

- Fields include: First Name, Middle Name, Last Name, Phone Number, Email Address, Department/Faculty, Media/Organization name, Purpose of the shoot, Upload your ID, Email of contact person in department, Phone number of contact person, List of equipment, Date of the shoot ### Video and Photography Request Form This form is for internal departments requesting video and photography services.

- Fields include: Full Name, Department, Phone Number, Email Address, Event Name, Event Venue, Audience, Strategic pillar alignment, Event dates and times, Event Description, Audio/Video Coverage options ### Design Request Form For requesting design work from the communications department.

- Fields include: Your Name, Email Address, Manager's email address, Phone Number, Department, Email Subject, Recipients, Mailing list uploads, Email content, File uploads, Email signature details ## Graduation Policy ### NOTICE TO 2025 GRADUANDS APPLICATION FOR GRADUATION Strathmore University 2025 Graduation Instructions The Academic Division wishes to notify all members of the class of 2025 about graduation details relating to the application for graduation, clearance and gown collection.

Apply for graduation online by completing the Graduation Application form in the Students' Academic Module and pay the appropriate convocation fee as detailed here: - PhD: 15,000 - Masters: 8,600 (SBS has an extra charge that will be communicated) - Undergraduate: 8,100 - Diploma: 6,000 Convocation fees are paid to the SU bank account as with other fees. The same amounts can be charged on any excess fee payments already paid.

Applications should be made after the confirmation of records and payment of fees balances with effect from Friday, 30th May 2025. ### Online Exit Survey As part of the University improvement process, all graduating students are required to fill in the exit survey. This is done before application for clearance. Kindly give feedback to help improve the Strathmore Experience. ### Clearance Students intending to graduate are required to clear from the university.

The online link to Strathmore University clearance is https://apps.strathmore.edu/clearance (The link will be open on Wednesday, 23rd April 2025) - Departments will clear all applicants who will have applied for graduation by 23rd June 2025. Clearance starts at the school or faculty confirming all students' details. "Pending status" means the school is checking and will clear one in due course.

- The clearance system will auto-clear one from all departments except Finance which has to close your financial records. - Graduands who would like the order of names to be changed on the graduation certificate are required to do so through their school administrators. - University transcripts follow the order in AMS (Surname- First Name- Other Names) - Collection of graduation gowns from schools is scheduled for Monday, 16th June 2025 and should be returned by Friday, 8th August 2025.

A late gown return will attract a daily surcharge of KES 200. - You will be expected to surrender your SU ID as you collect your gown or when picking up your certificate and transcripts. Students intending to graduate in 2025 should note the academic regulations indicate that: - A student who has not satisfied all the requirements for graduation will not be awarded the corresponding diploma/conferred with the corresponding degree.

- Students with a graduation grievance have to withdraw from the graduation process until the matter is resolved. - Once the diploma is awarded/degree is conferred during the graduation ceremony, no changes will be made. - For the planning and organisation of the graduation ceremony; only those students who have filed an Application for Graduation by the stipulated time will be included in the graduation list.

For any clarifications and concerns, kindly write to: registraracademic@strathmore.edu or contact your School Administrator. The Academic Division congratulates the class of 2025! Stephen Ng'ang'a University Registrar

