# School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH) - Strathmore University ## About STH Strathmore University launched the School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH) in 2008 offering full time and part time (evening) degree programmes in hospitality and tourism management.

This was in line with the teachings of St. Josemaria Escriva who desired that there be training institutions and universities dedicated to the formation of the work of the home where persons can be professionally trained to carry out these tasks with the greatest perfection. Hospitality is creating a "home away from home", a tagline most often quoted by hotels and accommodation providers.

It is a common fact that everyone needs the warmth of a home and if this is missing then it becomes very difficult to learn how to relate in a truly human way. From this perspective, the homemaker plays a very important role in the well-being of society. The hospitality discipline focuses mainly on the care of the human person, both in the tangible and intangible aspects of service.

### Vision To be the anchor of transformational education for a thriving hospitality and tourism industry leading to enhanced quality of life. ### Core Values STH is guided by Strathmore University's core values and adapts the following: **Excellence through sanctification of work** We strive for excellence in work and highest quality output reflecting the joy of service as we echo the spirit of the Founder of the School: "Whatever you do, do it well. Poorly done things cannot be offered to God".

**Integrity** We uphold ethical practices of staff and students and foster integrity in all their actions. **Commitment** We value personal commitment which comes with the exercise of freedom and responsibility, which is fostered through personal attention given to staff and students. **Collegiality** We respect one another's commitment to a common purpose and work together to achieve the common goal.

**Creativity and innovation** We foster innovation and enhance creativity through experiential activities within and outside the classroom to equip learners with skills and tools for innovation and adaptability. **Life-long learning** We develop programmes and training courses that contribute to a person's development of mind and body, intelligence, sensitivity, aesthetic appreciation and spirituality throughout their lives.

**Social responsibility** We serve society through education, research and community outreach projects organized by students and staff. Hospitality and tourism education has a direct impact on the family and society as it is a service profession. Through our home management programmes, we make a direct contribution to the betterment of society and improve quality of life in the family.

### Strategic Goals (2015-2025) The STH strategic goals are organized according to three main pillars: #### Transforming student experience - Deliver market-oriented curriculum using effective learning and transformation mechanisms - Employ and retain high quality and motivated academic staff - Attract and retain suitable students - Build and strengthen sustainable student financing initiatives - Enhance student engagement and achievement in co-curricular activities - Implement the student

mentoring programme efficiently - Enhance the quality of graduates: knowledge, skills and attitude **Strategic result:** An enabling environment for the integral development of staff and students.

#### Research and Enterprise - Attract research funding and boost Centre research fund base - Promote research-based teaching and learning and enhance student research output - Build staff research capacity - Improve capacity in consultancy - Enhance research scholarship - Develop entrepreneurial capacity **Strategic result:** A dynamic information base for the hospitality and tourism industry and academia through research and development.

#### Service to Society - Promote and implement STH-related community outreach projects (COP) - Build external partnerships with stakeholders in conducting COP activities - Build a platform for staff and student involvement in COP activities - Increase engagement of STH alumni **Strategic result:** Improved quality of life on the family, community and society. ## Why Strathmore University? **Our Brand Education** Strathmore shapes global leaders for tomorrow.

Our market-oriented courses, industry linkages and opportunities outside the classroom, provide positive career outcomes for our students in their chosen fields. **Mentoring** Strathmore University has a mentoring system in which one-on-one sessions between mentor and student aim to bring the integration of knowledge, skills and values down to the personal level. **Our Graduates** Employers attest that Strathmore graduates distinguish themselves by their work ethic and discipline.

**International Experience** Strathmore provides global exposure to students through international academic trips to expand their knowledge. ## Advisory Board Training in the hospitality and tourism industry worldwide has traditionally attracted a close relationship between the centres of training and the industry. This is motivated by the fact that the industry does not boast out as a traditional discipline like the other sciences.

It therefore necessitated that in order to be up to date with industry requirements and also international recognition, key industry personality and leading scholars be incorporated in the management of the School's programmes. In this regard STH undertook to build up and incorporate a participative management approach by using an industry and academia-based advisory board.

It has enabled the Centre to easily seek information as well as obtain support for any need for funding as may be required from time to time. The Board is made up of key and leading personalities from the local and international academia and industry.

Members of the Advisory Board include: - Mr. Mahmud Janmohamed - Managing Director, Tourism Promotion Services, Serena Hotels - Prof. Nerine C. Bresler - Prof. of Tourism, University of Johannesburg, South Africa - Dr. Ongong'a Achieng - Former Managing Director, Kenya Tourist Board - Prof. Eleri Jones - Prof. of Tourism, University of Wales, Cardiff, UK - Dr. Florence Oloo - Mr. Gerson M. Misumi - GM/Director, the Carnivore (Tamarind Group) - Dr. Lars Lindkvist - Executive Director and Chairman

- Basecamp, Explorers, Kenya and CEO, Basecamp Foundation - Mr. Jakes Grieves-Cook - Managing Director, Gamewatchers Safaris, Chairman of Kenya Tourist Board ## Academic Programs ### Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management The BSc in Hospitality Management programme (BHM) exposes the students to an environment oriented to both business and hotel operations and management.

The BHM curriculum is a combination of theory and practice where the students are exposed to hands-on training in food and beverage production and service and in rooms division management within the Strathmore facility and in the hotels where they will do their attachment and internship. The students acquire not only technical and management skills but also the necessary soft skills such as spirit of service, social etiquette, personal responsibility, commitment and teamwork.

**Core subjects of specialization:** - Food and Beverage Production I, II and III - Food and Beverage Service I and II - Food and Beverage Management - Housekeeping and Laundry Techniques - Housekeeping and Laundry Supervision - Front Office and Customer Service - Hotel Information Systems - Accommodation Management - Essentials of Menu Planning and Costing - Hospitality Operations Management - Bar Operations Management - Food Related Microorganisms and Diseases - Hospitality Facilities

Management - Management Accounting for Hospitality For practical classes, the students do the food production in the STH kitchen laboratory while service practice is done in the Snack Bar. The BHM degree programme requires all students to do 200 hours of community-based attachment after their first year of study and 3 months of industrial attachment in top hotels at the end of the second year and third year of study.

They can also venture into business start-ups of a restaurant, events management services, catering service or lodging house. #### Career Opportunities Graduates can find employment in hotels, special event management companies, resorts, restaurants, convention centres, and transport companies such as airlines and cruise ships. This programme is ideal for people who are mobile, free-spirited and eager for new experiences and cultures.

In such a broad-based industry, career opportunities are extensive. ### Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management The Tourism Management programme equips the students with the necessary skills, knowledge and attitude needed to transform the challenges of the 21st century into business opportunities and socially responsible enterprises in the field of tours, travel and tourism.

The BTM curriculum, which is a combination of theory and field work, is unique to Strathmore as it provides the students with the necessary competence in tourism product development and destination management, tourism policy and planning, wildlife management, ecotourism and sustainable tourism, among others.

Career options range from tourism policy and planning in tourism agencies, running a tour and travel company, working in NGO's and international organizations, setting up wildlife conservancy and eco-lodges, or venturing into business start-up of developing tourist destinations that abound in Kenya and in neighboring countries.

**Core subjects of specialization:** - Wildlife Tourism I and II - Travel and Tourism Industry Operations - Sustainable Tourism and Ecotourism - Cross-Cultural Management - Environmental Management - East African Societies - Tourism Resources in East Africa - Travel and Tourism Automation - Sports and Recreational Tourism - Cultural and Rural Tourism - Travel Agency Management - Destination Management - Media Relations for Tourism - Travel and Tourism Management Issues - Tourism Policy Planning

- International Tourism ### Master in Hospitality Business Management The Master in Hospitality Business Management is a unique programme developed to provide the next-generation hospitality managers with in-depth knowledge and international experience to enable them to explore innovative hospitality business opportunities.

The Programme provides a valuable opportunity to hospitality professionals and industry practitioners to acquire leadership and business management skills specific for the hospitality industry. The goal of the MHBM is to provide graduates with a strong skill base in ethical leadership, business acumen, sustainable management, entrepreneurship and research that need to be applied at top or mid-level management in addressing contemporary hospitality industry needs and challenges.

**Programme Outcomes** By the end of the Programme, students will be able to: 1. Demonstrate global leadership skills in the field of hospitality. 2. Exhibit mastery of hospitality business management. 3. Demonstrate ability to conduct applied research that addresses current needs and challenges of the hospitality industry. 4. Exhibit leadership ability in the context of social consciousness and ethical practice. 5. Apply innovation in hospitality entrepreneurship.

**Admission Criterion** The following are eligible for admission into the Master in Hospitality Business Management Programme: 1. Holders of First Class or Upper Second Class Honours degrees in Hospitality from recognized universities; or 2. Holders of other related qualifications from recognized universities, considered by the Academic Council as equivalent to a First Class or Upper Second Class degree in a related discipline; or 3.

Holders of Lower Second Class degrees who also have: - A Postgraduate Diploma in a relevant area; or, - Two-years' practical experience in the hospitality industry. 4. Holders of other related qualifications from recognised universities, considered by the Academic Council as equivalent to (i) or (ii) above. 5. In addition to meeting any one of the above admission criteria: all applicants will be required to attend and pass an oral interview and a Graduate Entrance Examination (GEE).

**Key Focus Areas** - Ethics, Governance and Responsibility - Hospitality Revenue Management - Strategic Hospitality HR Management - Hospitality Leadership and Management - Corporate Finance for Hospitality - Hotel Property Planning, Design and Development - Competitive Strategies for Hospitality Business - Global Hospitality Marketing - Innovation and Change Management - Big Data Analytics in Hospitality - Hospitality Law - Hospitality Business Development **For Who** - Hospitality business

mid-level and senior Managers - Hospitality business owners / directors - Potential and Current hospitality investors - Hospitality researchers and academicians **Cost** 1.2 Million (200,000 Per Module) The programme is divided into 6 modules.

The cost includes: - Tuition fee at Strathmore University and in International module - International module including return Airfare, accommodation, subsistence, organized transport and examinations, experiential learning - A tablet and E-learning resources - Meals during teaching weeks on campus - Access to books and journals ### Special Exempt Evening Programme The School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH) offers a special undergraduate programme for those who are already working in the

industry and holding a professional diploma in hospitality or tourism from an accredited institution. This programme bridges the diploma to a degree, leading to a degree in: - Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management - Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management Successful candidates may be exempted some of the units offered in the evening course degree programme. Candidates applying for exemption shall be required to sit for a qualifying exam in hospitality and tourism.

**Entry Requirements** 1. Be a holder of a diploma in a relevant discipline from an institution accredited by the Academic Council of the University: OR 2. Be a holder of any other qualification accepted by Academic Council of the University as equivalent to (a) above. 3. Candidates who hold (a) or (b) qualifications will be required to pass the qualifying examination. 4. Should have at least a minimum grade of C (Plain) or C – (minus) + Recognized certificate. 5.

6 credits at O level, a level 2 principal passes and 1 subsidiary. 6. IB 24 out of 45.

The following diploma qualifications are accepted for the special exempt programme: - Kenya Utalii College – Diploma in Hotel management - Kenya Utalii College – Diploma in Tourism management - KNEC – Catering and Accommodation - KNEC – Food and Beverage Management - KNEC – Diploma in Tourism Management - TUK – Diploma in Institutional Catering and Accommodation Management - TUK – Diploma in Travel and Tourism Management - KWSTI – Hospitality and Tourism - KWSTI – Environmental Management -

KWSTI – Wildlife Management - IHTI – BTEC Higher National Diploma in International Hospitality Management - BIHC – Diploma in Hotel Management Possession of the minimum requirements does not guarantee automatic admission to the Hospitality and Tourism degree programmes.

**Interview Requirements** Interviews are conducted on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 8.00 a.m. - Original and copy of academic and professional certificates - 2 passport size photos - National ID / passport / birth certificate - Secondary school leaving certificate - Interview fee KSHS 2000 (Exempted if the interviews are conducted in your institution) Classes run in the evening from 5:30 pm to 8:30 pm Monday to Friday, and on Saturdays from 8:30am to 2:30 pm for three semesters per year

(January-April, May-August, and September-December). Intake is in May and September each year. ## Executive Education Programs The School of Tourism and Hospitality offers several short-term courses and training programmes meant to address the day-to-day needs of industry managers, supervisors, and other staff. Such courses run for a period of between one and five days.

Leading local and international professors as well as seasoned industry practitioners and consultants are used extensively to give these programmes the latest and readily applicable outcomes. The training modules are tailored to suit the needs of the client. We offer training in Customer Service, Soft Skills, Service Quality Management and Managerial and Supervisory Skills. We also offer hands-on training in food and beverage production and service as well as in housekeeping and laundry.

### High Impact Industry Oriented Programs #### Hospitality Professionals Development Programme (HPDP) #### Revenue Management Proficiency Programme (HRMPP) **Course overview** Revenue management is key to any business with relatively fixed capacity, perishable inventory, and time-variable demand. With increased competition, high distribution costs and a shortage of competent revenue managers, today's hotelier needs revenue management training more than ever before.

The Revenue Management Proficiency Programme introduces the fundamentals of revenue management, application of pricing tools and revenue management performance measurement. The course will assist in developing skills to examine pricing models accurately in accordance with revenue management principles. It also provides you with the foundation, tools and strategies to implement a Revenue Management culture in your organization.

In this programme, you will learn to develop integrated revenue management strategies that improve your organization's profitability. **Why Choose the Programme? ** To learn the fundamentals of Revenue Management in a local context, apply the revenue management to business operations and understand the KPIs used in Revenue Management to measure firm performance. The programme will help you make optimum decisions when faced with complexities. **For Whom?

** The programme is suitable for hospitality professionals responsible for improving the financial performance of their establishments and leaders who want to take on more responsibility for improving profitability in their property. It is also suitable for hospitality & tourism professionals who want to develop a career in revenue management.

competitive advantage tool. - Institute a revenue management culture and identify common mistakes in revenue management. - Apply the tools (technological and non-technological) needed in Revenue management. - Manage distribution channels optimally. - Use and analyze available data effectively to implement a revenue management strategy. - Manage inventory, price, and distribution and Interpret Demand Forecasting in all revenue points of a hotel.

#### Hospitality Data Analytics Executive Programme (HDAP) **Course overview** How can we make "big data" in the hotel industry not just a buzzword, but a concept that will bring real benefit to hotel enterprises? Data analytics can be used in numerous different ways in order to improve business operations, marketing strategies, stating needs, occupancy rates and yield.

Hospitality firms generate enormous amounts of data and should not only leverage it to understand their current performance (i.e. business intelligence) but also – and most importantly – to generate prescriptive analytics to orientate their strategy. In this age, having the whole hotel ecosystem MUST have a proper understanding of data, and connect all data sources effectively. This is paramount in generating competitive advantage, providing superior customer value and being on top of the curve.

The modern hotelier must learn how to use Data (internal and external) to base their decisions on real insights rather than on rumors and feelings. In the next couple of years, hospitality businesses will use artificial intelligence (AI) and data science to evaluate their performance and provide an innovative guest experience. So, you the modern hotelier, do not be afraid of data. Data is everywhere and can make your hospitality firm more competitive. **For Whom?

** The program is suitable for all hospitality professionals. We believe you are either a consumer or generator of data in your organization.

participant will be able to: - Link data analytics to their day-to-day operations - Institute a data strategy in their places of work - Apply the tools (technological and non-technological) needed in data Analytics - Make decisions based on data - Better and informed reporting - Optimize Revenues using data analytics - Use data science knowledge as a competitive advantage tool - Analyze available data effectively to implement a revenue management strategy - Create more revenue channels and

ancillary services #### Executive Home Management Education (EHoME) Would you like to master the art of preparing tasty dishes at home? Do you wish to gain practical skills in the kitchen and in home management? Enrol now for the Executive Home Management (EHoME) short course. EHoME is cooking and home management course taught by experienced instructors from the School of Tourism and Hospitality at Strathmore University. **For Whom?

** The program is suitable for: - Young professionals - Domestic assistants - Home managers - Home chefs - Working parents - Students - Any interested person who desires skills to have a warm home **Key focus areas - Cookery** - Breakfast items: pancakes, cooking eggs, bacon & sausage - Meat cookery-beef: beef cuts, cutting & marinating, stewing, frying, grilling - Potato cookery: sauting, lyonnaise, wedges, chips, bhajia - Meat cookery-chicken: portioning chicken, marinating, roasting, frying -

Cooking Starches & vegetables: rice dishes, pasta dishes, chapatis, vegetable salads - Tea snacks and Salads: muffins, tea scones, cookies, doughnuts - Fish cookery: Marinating, fish fingers, grilling, baking - Meat cookery-Pork: cutting, marinating, coating, grilling, pan-frying, Roasting - Cooking with minced meat: burgers, Samosa, Meatballs - Just baking: Flaky pastry, meat pies, sausage rolls ## Center for Biodiversity Information Development (BID-C) The Centre for Biodiversity Information

Development (BID-C) was established to lead research initiatives on biodiversity conservation and to implement conservation and human well-being projects in different landscapes in Kenya and across Africa. BID-C focuses on mobilization and use of biodiversity data, integration of biodiversity data into conservation policy and capacity development to promote biodiversity conservation in Kenya and across Africa over the next decade.

### Our Mission To provide a platform for research collaboration on biodiversity conservation to address conservation challenges in Africa through data use, data sharing, science publishing and capacity development on biodiversity and climate information. ### Our Vision To lead in the development and dissemination of biodiversity data and information to aid in decision-making across diverse levels towards the transformation needed to secure people, species and biodiversity areas under threat.

### Our Values Our core values at BID-C are: - Collaboration and partnership - Innovation - Transformational research - Excellence - Ethical practice - Diversity - Service to society ### Our Approach BID-C leverages on sustainable partnerships between development and conservation practitioners, decision-makers, scientists and students at Masters and PhD levels to co-produce biodiversity information and innovations to contribute to conservation management.

The center applies the full life-cycle of conservation action, which involves identifying needs and challenges, conducting interdisciplinary research and disseminating results, engaging partners, identifying further interventions, and encouraging action at the local and regional level.

These interventions will fall within the following 3 categories: - Biodiversity and Human Livelihoods - Biodiversity and Climate Change - Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services ### Our Core Activities To achieve the mission and vision, BID-C will focus on the following: - Research and Publication - Partnership development and linkages - Training and research mentorship - Data management and data sharing - Contributing to conservation policy development - Fundraising and grants management - Field

### Field Studies Program The Centre for Biodiversity Information Development (BID-C) at the School of Tourism and Hospitality offers a field studies programme, a research-based field studies programme in Kenya's diverse conservation areas.

The field sites for this course are carefully selected among Kenyans key tourism hotspots including Masai Mara, Amboseli, Tsavo East and West, the Kenya's Coastal and Nothern regions, Mt. Kenya and select community conservancies.

**Learning Methods** Interactive learning approaches including group discussion and research work, field observation and engagement with the indigenous community in conservation areas, field drives and tours, problem identification in groups on conservation, problem-solving through short term field research projects, interaction with indigenous groups and peers from different cultural backgrounds and disciplines, project write up and presentation.

This is a field-based program that emphasizes direct and onsite hands-on activities and engagement in teams and with rural communities.

**Intended Learning Outcomes** - To examine wildlife conservation approaches, successes and challenges in wilderness areas in Kenya - To experience wildlife tourism and culture of indigenous communities - To comprehend the linkages and departures between wildlife conservation and community livelihoods - To experience research-based learning through field activities - To learn in a multicultural and multi-disciplinary environment through engagement with peers and facilitators from different

cultural backgrounds. **This field course is designed for:** - Registered Strathmore University Students (ALL programmes) - Overseas students registered in their mother universities and are keen to explore a multidisciplinary and a multi-cultural field studies in Kenya. ## Train Abroad Program (TAP) STH has an arrangement with Broadmoor Resort in Colorado for a one year paid work experience in the US.

The program targets either final year students or those within one year of graduation from both Hospitality and Tourism courses. The program aims to equip students with top notch training experience in a multi-cultural setting. The training positions are available in Food and Beverage (servers, hosts), Housekeeping, Culinary and Operations (front desk, reservations, and concierge).

The trainees are paid the same rates as employees and after one month will make their own accommodation arrangements. The first cohort of students in this program joined at the end of 2018 and are thrilled so far with the experience gained so far. ## Faculty and Staff ### Dr. David Chiawo **Senior Lecturer, Dean - STH** dchiawo@strathmore.edu **Profile** David is an Ecologist, a Senior Lecturer and Dean of School of Tourism and Hospitality, Strathmore University.

Holds a PhD in zoology (Conservation Ecology). His skills and expertise span teaching, research, conservation, public policy and sustainable development. He has experience in development, and evaluation of projects on biodiversity and ecosystem services, wildlife conservation and management, sustainable land use management, natural resource policy, climate change resilience and enhancing local livelihoods through conservation enterprise.

He developed a training manual for green destination guidelines for Kenya under African Wildlife Foundation Project and trained conservancies in Southern and Northern Kenya on conservation and sustainability approaches. His aim is to promote biodiversity conservation while enhancing meaningful gains to local communities at tourism destinations and protected areas, and to mainstream conservation best practices in Kenyan tourism destinations.

Research supervisor at Strathmore Business School for public policy and sustainability projects. A member of British Ecological Society, International Network for Next Generation Ecologists. A former EARTHWATCH and Tropical Biology Association fellow and current chair of International Foundation for Science (Kenya chapter). Dr. Chiawo holds a PhD PhD in Zoology (Conservation). Rhodes University, MSc.

### Mr. Collins Haggai **Faculty** chaggai@strathmore.edu **Profile** Mr. Collins Haggai is a faculty at Strathmore University School of Hospitality and Tourism. His areas of specialization are front office operations, rooms' division management and hotel information systems. He has more than twenty years' experience as a hospitality trainer punctuated with industry experience.

Collins was involved as a lead consultant in the development of the national hospitality training curricula and proficiency modules for training hospitality industry personnel in Kenya. He has had extensive interaction with the industry through consultancy assignments. He holds a Master of Science in International Hospitality Management from the University of Strathclyde in Glasgow (UK) He is currently a PhD student (Hospitality Management) at Strathmore University.

### Mr. Philip Okombo **Faculty** pokombo@strathmore.edu **Profile** Mr. Philip Okombo is a faculty at Strathmore University School of Tourism and Hospitality. He has specialised in the areas of Food and Beverage Service Operations, Bar Operations and Conventions and Events Management. He also handles the examinations coordination docket for the school.

He has over twenty years' experience as a hospitality trainer at Certificate, Diploma and Undergraduate levels with various hospitality training institutions, in Kenya and Botswana. He holds a Diploma in Hotel Management (Kenya Utalii College), a Bachelor of Science degree in Hospitality Management from Florida International University (Florida, USA), and an MBA in Operations Management from the University of Nairobi.

He is currently a Doctoral Fellow (Hospitality Management) at the Technical University of Kenya ### Ms. Pauline Thumbi **Doctoral Fellow** pthumbi@strathmore.edu **Profile** Pauline is an expert in Hospitality management, specifically in the areas of Food and Beverage and Hospitality operations Management. She has a wide exposure of teaching experience from Kibondeni College, a project of Kianda Foundation.

She did her diploma in Catering and Accommodation management at The Kenya polytechnic (currently TUK) and her Diploma in Technical education at Kenya Technical Teachers college. She further obtained both her BSc in Hospitality and Tourism Management and Master of Science in Hospitality Management from Kenyatta University. Currently, she is pursuing her Doctor of Philosophy in Hospitality management at Kenyatta University.

She has attained an International certification in Hotel Industry Analytics and is a member of the Tourism professional Association where she serves as member of the accreditation committee for the same. She has also served as a member of the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development review panel in the Technical areas of Hospitality courses for vocational training on several occasions.

### Videar Kwoba **Part-time Lecturer** vkwoba@strathmore.edu **Profile** Videar Kwoba is a part time lecturer at Strathmore University School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH). She joined STH as an adjunct faculty in Tourism, and holds the position of Lecturer from 2020 to date. Ms. Videar Kwoba brings extensive management experience to her teaching.

She holds a Certificate in Revenue Management from Cornell University, Bachelor's degree in Tourism Management from Moi University, Master of Business Administration from Strathmore University. His research interests include Revenue Management and Hotel Operations Management. Videar Kwoba teaches in Revenue Management and Guest accounting. Her areas of interest include: revenue management, hotel operations management. **Publications:** Kwoba, V. (2018).

Promoting domestic tourism in Kenya: an assessment of economic significance and opportunities for tourism stakeholders in Nairobi (Thesis). Strathmore University. ### Ms. Rose Kihara **Teaching Fellow** rkihara@strathmore.edu **Profile** Ms. Rose Kihara is an assistant lecturer at Strathmore University School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH). She is a clinical nutritionist with working experience from several hospitals including Aga Khan University Hospital Nairobi and Mbagathi District Hospital.

Ms. Kihara has also worked as a research assistant mainly investigating aflatoxin contamination and exposure levels in the country. She joined STH in 2016 and lectures Food Science and Human Nutrition as well as Diet Therapy. Her goal is to be a nutrition researcher focusing on local foods. ### Ms. Veronica Muniu **School Manager** vmuniu@strathmore.edu **Profile** Veronica Muniu joined the School of Tourism and Hospitality in December 2020 as the School Manager.

Aside from project management, Veronica is passionate about entrepreneurship and personal development, she is passionate about collaboration, service and teamwork, and she is developing interest in conservation. ### Ms. Rose N Mathenge **Marketing Executive** rnjuguna@strathmore.edu **Profile** Rose Njuguna-Mathenge is a Marketing Executive at Strathmore University School of Tourism and Hospitality (STH).

She joined STH as a Hospitality student in 2016 and later joined the STH faculty in 2019 as an administrative assistance, and holds the position of a Marketing Executive from 2020. Rose is passionate about creating value for others and forging beneficial relations which she finds rewarding. Her hospitality background gives her an edge to do her work as a marketer since she understands the needs of the industry.

She holds a Diploma In Catering and accommodation from Kibondeni college, a Bachelor's degree in Hotel and Hospitality Management from Strathmore University and soon looking to start her Masters. ### Teclar Ndambuki **School Administrator** tndambuki@strathmore.edu **Profile** Teclar Ndambuki is a School Administrator at Strathmore University, School of Tourism and Hospitality. She joined the university in November 2016.

She holds a Diploma in Mass Communication(J.K.U.AT) and a Bachelors of Arts Degree in Communication from Daystar University. Other than administration, Teclar has a background in Public Relations and Customer Service Management. During her free time, Teclar loves writing, travelling and Interacting with others.

Portia Pearl Siyanda Sifolo, David Chiawo, Marina Novelli, Kobby Mensah, Judy Kepher-Gona, Job Odhiambo, George Tsekouras, Aline Figlioli, Daniel Adidwa, Sarah Muigai, and Festus Mburu (2025). Accelerating Entrepreneurship for Sustainable Tourism in Africa Through Co-Created Youth-Centered Innovation Ecosystem. https://doi.org/10.1142/9789819800520_0004 The tourism industry is important to the global economy and is expected to grow by 4.2% per annum in 2028.

However, despite the opportunities the tourism sector offers to create jobs for the youth in Africa, highly skilled tourism graduates are still disadvantaged in securing employment in an industry that appears to prefer a less skilled workforce. This paper provided critical reflections on the co-creation process and practices aimed at accelerating entrepreneurship and innovation for sustainable tourism in Africa.

It was framed by Indigenous Knowledge Systems and Open Innovation (OI) thinking, employing a hybrid methodology drawing upon the Rapid Situation Analysis (RSA) and the Peer-to-Peer co-constructed and participatory research techniques involving 45 tourism bachelors students registered in Higher Education Institutions (HEI) in Kenya, Ghana, and South Africa and critical knowledge exchanges between partners from Kenya, Ghana, and the UK.

A training and impact evaluation toolkit and establishing digitally interconnected Sustainable Tourism Innovation Hubs and a more comprehensive industry network are proposed as possible ways forward. 2. Naftal G. Kariuki, David O. Chiawo, Eunice W. Kairu, Jemimah A. Simbauni & Amos C. Muthiuru (2025). Weather pattern and wildfire interplay in Tsavo Conservation Area, Kenya.

https://doi.org/10.1186/s42408-025-00351-w Wildfires have caused harmful destructions in many protected areas across the globe. In Tsavo for instance, wildfires have become more frequent and severe in the past years. The incidences of wildfires have been linked to climate change however the relationship between weather patterns and wildfires especially in the Tsavo, has not been well understood.

This paper therefore aimed to establish the relationship between weather patterns and wildfires to identify a matrix model to identify the months of the year most likely to experience high wildfires. The findings of this paper can help inform wildfire likelihoods for management preparedness.

### Research Scholars **PhD Research Scholars** **Betty Rono** Thesis title: Trends, values and demands for Nature's Contributions to People (NCP) in Forested ecosystems: Mau forest in Kenya, Rhodes University, South Africa. Funded by Morally contested conservation project, Wildlife Conservation Research Unit (WILDRCU), Oxford University. https://www.wildcru.org/.

Supervisors: Dr. Nokubonga Mgqatsa (Rhodes University), Dr. David Chiawo (Strathmore University), Dr. Darragh Hare (Oxford University). **Naftali Kariuki** Thesis title: Integrated community-based approach to wildfire mitigation and management in Tsavo ecosystem: A win-win to people and wildlife. Kenyatta University, Kenya. Research funded by the Center for Biodiversity Information Development (BID-C).

Supervisors: Dr. Jemimah Simbauni (Kenyatta University), Dr. David Chiawo (Strathmore University), Dr. Eunice Kairu (Kenyatta University). **Peggy Ngila** Thesis title: Niche distribution and predictive modelling of risks by overhead power lines to raptors in Kenya. University of Nairobi, Kenya. Research funded by the Center for Biodiversity Information Development.

Supervisors: Dr. Vivian Oliver Wasonga (University of Nairobi), Dr. David Chiawo (Strathmore University) and Dr. Margaret Owuor (Bern University). **Caroline Maina** Thesis title: Species distribution modeling and threat analysis of grey-crowned crane (Balearicaregulorus) in the niche hotspots of Nairobi metropolitan area, Kenyatta University. Research funded by the Center for Biodiversity Information Development (BID-C).

Supervisors: Dr. Jemimah Simbauni, Dr. David Chiawo (Strathmore University), Dr. James Jumbe (Kenyatta University) **MSc Research Students** **Dominic Njue Mugo** MSc. GIS and Remote Sensing Project Title: Modeling The Spatial Distribution of the Grey Crowned Cranes in Kenya. Expected Date of Completion: 30th June 2022 University Registered: Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. **Purity Chepkirui** Msc.

In Animal Ecology Project Title: Nesting Site Selection and Breeding Success of Ruppell's Vulture (Gyps Rueppellii) In Hell's Gate National Park, Kenya University Registered: Kenyatta University ## Admissions Information ### Entry Requirements for Undergraduate Programs Applicants must meet the following requirement: - A minimum mean grade of C+ in KCSE OR - Six subjects with a grade B and above including Mathematics and English at IGCSE level or three subjects with grade B and above at GCE

level. - All candidates meeting the entry requirement shall be required to sit and pass the University entrance examination in English and Mathematics and an oral interview. - Candidates applying for exemption shall be required to sit for a qualifying exam in hospitality and tourism. ### Interview Requirements - Interviews are held on Tuesdays and Thursdays at 8:00 am.

- Candidates are required to bring originals and copies of relevant academic certificates, 2 passport size photographs, a photocopy of birth certificate or national ID or passport and KSH1,800 entrance exam fee.

### Intakes - Intake for the full-time programme is in March and June - Intake for the evening programme in May and September ## Contact Information **Phone:** (+254) (0)703-034000 **Location:** Strathmore University Madaraka Estate, Ole Sangale Road PO Box 59857 00200 City Square Nairobi, Kenya. **Fax:** (+254) (0)20 6007498 **Email:** sth@strathmore.edu **Executive Education:** sthexecutiveeducation@strathmore.edu

