The University is interested in helping students develop not only their academic potential, but also all their other capacities and abilities so that they may become mature and responsible citizens. The University respects the freedom and ideas of individual students. However, in order to maintain academic standards and a high level of discipline and moral values, some regulations have been formulated and students are required to comply with these regulations.

- **2023**: In March, Strathmore University installs the second Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Vincent Ogutu who took over from the first Vice-Chancellor, Prof. John W. Odhiambo. ## OUR VALUES ### S - SERVICE TO SOCIETY We serve society through research, education and institutional citizenship. ### E - EXCELLENCE Through sanctification of work, we strive for work excellence and the highest-quality output.

### L - LIFE-LONG LEARNING We develop programmes and adopt teaching methods that equip learners with skills and tools for innovation, adaptability, and personal development. ### F - FREEDOM AND RESPONSIBILITY We respect the freedom of the individual person and acknowledge that with freedom comes responsibility. ### S - SUBSIDIARITY We seek to provide solutions at the most immediate level to a need.

### P - PERSONALIZED ATTENTION We seek to provide an environment where all our stakeholders can receive individualized and customized service and support. ### E - ETHICAL PRACTICE We honour the beliefs, morals and values of the academic profession and help others to do the same. ### C - COLLEGIALITY We respect one another's commitment to a common purpose and work together to meet the needs of our clients.

## STRATHMORE UNIVERSITY COAT OF ARMS **The Three Hearts** represent the races which, in 1961 when the University started, were segregated in the colonial system of education. Today, it symbolises the common aim of parents, teachers and students in the educational process of Strathmore. **The Lion** is the symbol of strength and courage and of the determined fight for excellence and justice. It also represents Kenya, our country, which strives to attain all the qualities mentioned above.

**The Rose** in full bloom represents love, the source of all good desires and actions, even if at times this means loving sacrifice, as represented by the thorns. **Colors:** - **Yellow (Gold)**: Gold means eternity, perfection. - **Blue (Azure)**: Sky blue means high ideals, high aims. - **Red (Gules)**: Blood red means sacrifice, love, fortitude. **The Motto**: "Ut omnes unum sint" is Latin. It is a quotation from a passage of the Gospel, and means, "That all may be one."

## ACADEMIC MATTERS Strathmore University is a centre of excellence admitting only those students who pass a rigorous entrance interview. Each student is thereafter provided with an academic mentor to help him/her make the best use of his/her abilities and of the facilities offered, managing study time etc.

Apart from looking after the academic needs of its students, Strathmore also caters for their spiritual and moral needs by including in the curriculum for full-time students a compulsory Professional Ethics course. ## ACADEMIC DEPARTMENTS The University is divided into the following main academic departments: 1. STRATHMORE UNIVERSITY BUSINESS SCHOOL (SBS) 2. SCHOOL OF COMPUTING AND ENGINEERING SCIENCES (SCES) 3. SCHOOL OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES (SHSS) 4.

STRATHMORE INSTITUTE OF MATHEMATICAL SCIENCES (SIMS) 5. SCHOOL OF TOURISM AND HOSPITALITY (STH) 6. STRATHMORE LAW SCHOOL (SLS) 7. STRATHMORE INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT AND TECHNOLOGY (SIMT) ### Strathmore University Business School Strathmore Business School strives to be the leading business school that offers superior quality and affordable academic and professional training to build enterprise and entrepreneurs; to promote business growth regionally, nationally and internationally.

More can be found at https://sbs.strathmore.edu/ **Programmes offered** - Bachelor of Commerce - Bachelor of Science in Supply Chain and Operations Management - Bachelor of Financial Services - Master of Business Administration - Master of Commerce **Students' Experiences** - International Summer and Autumn Business Programs - Round table forums for all the specializations.

The forums provide students with a one-on-one opportunity to interact and learn from experts in their respective fields of interest. **Partnerships** - Collaboration with Business schools in Africa, Asia, America and Europe.

More can be found at sces.strathmore.edu **Programmes Offered** *Degree Courses* - Bachelor of Business Information Technology - Bachelor of Science in Informatics and Computer Science - Bachelor of Science in Telecommunication - Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronics Engineering *Masters Courses* - Master of Science in Information Technology - Master of Science in Computer-Based Information Systems - Master of Science in Mobile Telecommunications & Innovation - Master of Information

Systems Security - Masters in Spectrum Management *Certificate Courses* - Cisco Certified Network Associate (CCNA) - International Computer Driving License (ICDL) - Certificate in Computer Applications (CCA) **Partnerships** The School has partnered with companies in the ICT and Engineering industries so as to further transform the students' experience and offer world-class training aligned with the requirements of the industry.

Some partners include: - IBM - Microsoft - Cisco - VISA - Direct Pay Online - KETRACO ### School of Humanities & Social Sciences **Who we are** The mission of the School of Humanities and Social Sciences is to complement the different university programmes by providing humanistic education for an all-round education of the students.

More can be found at http://shss.strathmore.edu/ **Teacher Enhancement Programme (TEP)** SHSS runs TEP as a corporate social responsibility activity for the university. This course is meant to empower head teachers with the necessary managerial and professional skills required for better management of limited resources at their disposal. It also equips head teachers with adequate skills to create conducive teaching and learning environment in their respective schools.

**The Strathmore Writing Centre (SWC)** The Strathmore Writing Centre was set up to help students cope with the different communication demands of university education. - SWC runs a 3-week course on Communication and Life Skills for Form 4 leavers - The Centre has started part-time foreign language courses, specifically French and Spanish, targeting Strathmore students, staff and outsiders.

**Programmes Offered** - Bachelor of Arts in Communication (Journalism and Public Relations / Journalism and Development Communication) - Bachelor of Arts in Development Studies and Philosophy - Bachelor of Arts in International Studies - Master of Applied Philosophy and Ethics (MAPE) - Master in Educational Practice for Academics (MEPA) - Master of Science in Educational Management (MSc.EM) - Teachers Enhancement Programmes (TEP) ### Strathmore Institute of Mathematical Sciences **Who we are**

Strathmore Institute of Mathematical Sciences (SIMS) provides an excellent platform that enhances programmes that are structured to serve the University, Kenya and the rest of Africa better.

The Institute provides both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in mathematical sciences and seeks to be a Centre of Excellence in applied mathematical research as well as provide high quality training to students and professionals in the fields of Actuarial Science, Mathematical Finance, Applied Economics, Applied Statistics and Applied Mathematics and as such contribute to the development of new generation of mathematical researchers.

More can be found at https://sims.strathmore.edu/ **Programmes Offered** - Bachelor of Business Science in Actuarial Science - Bachelor of Business Science in Finance - Bachelor of Business Science in Financial Economics - Master of Science in Mathematical Finance - Master of Science in Biomathematics - Master of Science in Statistical Sciences **Partnerships** Some of the partnerships cultivated in the last academic year are: - University of South Carolina Upstate - Makerere University -

University of KwaZulu-Natal - Stellenbosch University - University of Pretoria - The Actuarial Society of Kenya - Straits Financial - Kenya Bankers Association - Retirement Benefits Authority - Abacus Limited ### School of Tourism and Hospitality **Who we are** Our mission is to provide requisite knowledge and skills in hospitality and tourism; and produce professionals of global standards in service, operations management, research and technology.

More can be found at https://sth.strathmore.edu/ **Programmes Offered** - Bachelor of Science in Hospitality Management - Bachelor of Science in Tourism Management - Executive Education in Hospitality - Master in Hospitality Business Management **Partnerships** The school has partnered with key industry players to enhance student learning through internships: - Radisson Blue - Kempinski Villa Rosa - African Fund for Endangered Wildlife (AFEW) - Ecotourism Kenya - Kenya Tourism Federation STH has

also partnered with academic institutions for students' exchange programmes: - University College of Northern Denmark - Saxion University of Applied Sciences, Netherlands ### Strathmore Law School **Who we are** Strathmore Law School's mission is to achieve legal excellence through providing a supportive learning environment that inspires innovative and critical thinking, promoting groundbreaking research, actively pursuing justice, and nurturing virtuous and entrepreneurial leaders.

More can be found at http://www.law.strathmore.edu/ **Programmes Offered** - Bachelor of Laws - Master of Laws - Executive Legal Education courses **Partnerships** - The University has partnered with Cornell University in New York, USA to offer exchange programmes to Strathmore students, through a competitive selection process. - Students have worked with world-class law firms and organizations during their legal practice attachment.

This gives experience that will help them to apply the skills and knowledge that they have acquired in school. Such organizations include Holland and Knight, Anjarwalla and Khana, the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights and Centum. **Students' Experiences** Annual academic trips to European countries are used to enhance and compliment the students Public International Law unit understanding.

The students have an opportunity to visit and interact with institutions such as International Criminal Court (ICC), International Criminal Court of the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), Leiden University, International Court of Justice (ICJ), Nuremberg Palace of Justice, and University of Cologne. **Moot Court Competitions** Law students participate in moot court competitions both on the local and international level which aims at instilling public speaking and critical thinking skills and competencies.

By emerging winners in many moot court competitions, the University has gained worldwide recognition. ### Strathmore Institute of Management & Technology Strathmore Institute of Management Technology has been constituted to provide quality vocational education, technological and professional training to students.

The mandate includes but is not limited to professional courses in accountancy, information technology, management, entrepreneurial skills, enhancing teaching and management skills, and other emerging areas of interest in technical and vocational education and training. Strathmore Institute is the professional training arm of Strathmore University.

More can be found at https://si.strathmore.edu/ **Professional Courses** - Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) - Certified Public Accountant (CPA) - Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) - Certified Financial Analyst (CFA) - Certified Information Security Manager (CISM) - Certified Investment and Financial Analysts (CIFA) - Certified Human Resources Professional (CHRP) - Chartered Institute of Marketing (CIM) **Diploma Courses** - Diploma in Business Management and

Technology (DBIT) - Diploma in Business Management (DBM) - Diploma in Journalism and New Media (DJNM) - Diploma in International Relations (DIR) - Diploma in Entrepreneurship (DE) - Diploma in Procurement (DPR) ## GENERAL INFORMATION ### Transfer of Students The transfer of students can occur in the following ways: 1. From the degree programmes to professional courses 2. From the professional courses to degree programmes 3. From one faculty within the degree programme to another 4.

From one professional course to another within the university 5. From one programme to another within the same school (e.g. CPA to ACCA; or from Fulltime course to Evening course and vice versa) **a) Deadline for transfer** - The deadline for inter-Faculty/School transfer is within the first two weeks after the semester has started - For professional courses, if one is transferring within the same programme e.g. Full-time course to the Evening Course, the transfer is possible up to the 2nd week.

no refund | ### Academic Leave An academic leave is requested by students who wish to withdraw from the current semester, or who do not wish to attend future semesters. For students with multiple degree or professional programmes, academic leaves of absence are only granted for individual programmes. Students should review all possible ramifications of taking an academic leave. Students are encouraged to check with all other appropriate University offices (e.g.

- Following a period of academic leave, a student should normally start their studies at the beginning of the equivalent semester in which the academic leave commenced. A student may recommence their study at a different point if this is considered the most appropriate timing for them to re-join the Programme. This will be decided on a case-by-case basis and the rationale for the timing will be documented.

Students on leave may complete course work for which an Incomplete grade was reported in a prior semester. - Degree programmes and candidacy must be valid in the term of re-enrollment. Leaves do not delay candidacy or master's program expiration dates. Failure to return as scheduled or to secure an extension of a prior leave will result in cancelation of registration privileges.

*International Students* - Study Passes for International students will not be renewed during the academic leave period. Renewal shall be done upon resumption of studies. *Financial Aid* - Students on Financial Aid of any kind should notify the Financial Aid Office of their intent to leave the University if they are receiving any type of aid, particularly to protect eligibility for certain programmes and funds while on leave.

*Loans* - Students must notify all lenders of their intent to go on academic leave and request exit information before leaving the University. Students are cautioned to consider carefully the effect of leaves on their loan status; lenders may count the leave period as part of the total grace period.

**NOTE** - Should a student miss classes for more than 30 days, he/she shall be considered to be on an Academic Leave and the student will be liable for any consequences that will arise from such an action.

### Scholarships, Loan Scheme and Rebates **Scholarship** Our ideal is that no deserving student should fail to get a place in the University owing to lack of financial means; the University has, therefore, over the years sought the assistance of private and public institutions, as well as individuals, to contribute to the bursary scheme. As a consequence, the University runs a scholarship and bursary scheme for needy students. A sizeable proportion of students have been able to benefit from it.

The full-tuition student loans offered have enabled low-income talented students to study at Strathmore stress-free.

For more information please contact us through: financialaid@strathmore.edu **Fee Rebates** *Family Fee Rebate* 1) General Conditions Where two (or more) brothers/sisters of the same parents are studying as full-time students on the Degree programme at the same time, tuition fees benefits will be granted as follows: - Second brother/sister 10% of the tuition fees - Third brother/sister 20% of the tuition fees - Additional brothers/sisters 25% of the tuition fees NB: in case of twin

brothers/sisters, the one performing better gets the benefit. Documentary evidence (Birth Certificate) of the students' relationship must also be provided on application. The benefit begins a year after admission in order to observe performance, attendance and conduct.

2) Academic Requirements To qualify for fees benefits, a student must be studying full-time and have a good academic record, that is, maintain an academic average of B or above, and not have failed or been required to repeat any course during the previous academic year. If there are two children admitted at the same time, the child performing better gets the benefit. For those admitted at different times, the performance of the student who was admitted earlier is considered.

3) Good Conduct To qualify for fees benefits, a student must also be of good conduct and not have had any disciplinary problems or faults recorded at any time during their period of study at the University.

*Dean's List Fee Rebate* The fee rebate (discount) is in recognition of academic excellence in the degree programmes. It is awarded to the top three students in a class in an academic year. The three students are awarded as follows: - 10% fee rebate for the best student - 5% fee rebate for the second best student - 5% fee rebate for the third best student The rebate (discount) is not given in cash.

The above students to collect their award letters from their faculty managers at the beginning of the next academic year. ## RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING STUDENT CONDUCT & DISCIPLINE ### Jurisdiction and Role of the Academic Council The Academic Council has the right to interpret and the authority to apply these Rules and Regulations and others that may appear in approved university documents governing the conduct and Discipline of the Students.

The Council also has the right to make new Rules and Regulations, and to amend the existing Rules and Regulations in this booklet and in other approved university documents, governing the conduct and discipline of all students of Strathmore University. Any changes made by the Academic Council regarding rules and regulations governing student conduct are subject to the confirmation of the University Management Board and be binding to all students with immediate effect and forthwith.

Registered students are expected to abide by these Rules and Regulations at all times, when in academic session as well as during holidays, both on and off-campus. This Policy also applies to the off-campus conduct of students and registered student organizations in direct connection with: 1. A professional practice assignment; 2. Academic course requirements, such as internships, field trips, or student teaching; 3.

Any activity supporting pursuit of a degree, such as research at another institution; 4. Any activity sponsored, conducted, or authorized by the University or by registered student organizations; 5. Any activity that causes substantial destruction of property belonging to the University or members of the University community or causes disruption or serious harm to the health or safety of members of the University community; or 6.

Any activity in which a police report has been filed, a summons or indictment has been issued, or an arrest has occurred for a crime of violence. ### Enforcement of the Rules and Regulations University Student Disciplinary Committee, Departmental Boards, Faculty Boards, either directly or through their Executive Committees, have the duty and responsibility of ensuring that the Rules and Regulations are followed and enforced at their respective levels.

### Student Disciplinary Policy and Public Law Students continue to be subject to county and national laws while at the University and violations of those laws may also constitute violations of this Policy.

### Student Disciplinary Policy and Student Organizations Violations of university policies and rules related to student organizations may also constitute violations under the Student Disciplinary Policy. The complaints related to conduct at student organizations may be reviewed in accordance with this policy.

### Full Cooperation with all Student Disciplinary Procedures Throughout the student disciplinary process, students have the responsibility to cooperate fully in the disciplinary process and to present only truthful information. Any student found to have willfully presented false or misleading information or to have withheld information may be subject to further disciplinary action.

The University's educational policy fosters the following core values: freedom and responsibility, respect for the dignity of others, respect for other peoples' opinion, mutual trust and honesty, sincerity, sense of justice and concern for the well-being of others, mutual understanding and forgiveness, openness to fraternal correction and constructive suggestions for improvement, spirit of hard work or industriousness, spirit of service towards others, among other human virtues.

### CLASSIFICATION OF OFFENCES #### Non-Academic Offences Violation of the rules below constitutes a Non-Academic offence: 1. All students are required to carry their University Pass whenever they come to the University and should show it to the Guard at the entrance and to any member of Staff who may ask to see it. 2. Students who wish to absent themselves from class must get permission from the Head of Department.

In case of urgency, such permission may be obtained from the subject lecturer concerned, who will in turn inform the Head of Department. 3. A student who is absent from class for more than a specified number of lectures without a valid reason may be issued with a warning letter by the Head of Department or may be excluded from the final exam in that subject, according to the regulations of each Faculty. 4.

A student found attending a course for which he/she is not enrolled will be discontinued from any other courses for which he/she is enrolled and will not be allowed to enroll for any further courses in the University. 5. Punctuality is needed for the smooth running of the University. Students are expected to be present and seated in the classroom before a lecture begins. If a student arrives late for a lecture, the lecturer has discretion to decide whether to allow him/her into the classroom.

Students who persistently arrive late for their lectures will be issued with a warning letter by the Head of Department. 6. Respect for each other's property should always be upheld; thus it is an offence to steal, damage and destroy property, be it of the University or belonging to fellow students. Possession of stolen property is a punishable offence. 7.

behavior, which violates any article of this Section. 8. All mobile phones and beepers should be switched off when entering the classroom/library and chapel. No calls should be made or received in these places. 9. Students should not enter or leave the lecture room without permission from the Lecturer. 10. Silence should be observed in the lecture rooms, even in the Lecturer's absence, so that students who wish to study can do so. 11.

Students should avoid making noise outside the lecture rooms while lectures are in progress as this disturbs those attending the lectures. 12. For students who smoke, the university has provided smoking zones in both Sangale and Keri campuses. 13. For those who smoke, only conventional tobacco cigarettes should be smoked within the university. E-cigarettes and Shisha are not permitted in the university. 14. Bins are provided in the classrooms for the disposal of papers, pencil shavings etc.

Bins are provided in the garden and corridors for the disposal of other litter, such as cigarette butts and food waste. 15. While attending lectures students should be attentive and should not read novels, newspapers or other magazines. 16. Students are asked not to write on the desks or otherwise damage them. 17. Furniture or equipment should not be moved from one room to another without the permission of the respective Faculty Manager. 18.

Students may have their lunch in the Cafeteria area or on the lawns, and not in classrooms, corridors and car parks or at the gates. 19. To help maintain a businesslike and serious study atmosphere, external physical displays of affection and familiarity between men and women (holding hands, arms around shoulders or waist, tight hugging, excessive touching or grabbing and holding, etc.) are inappropriate and unnecessary.

Such behaviour does not occur in professional offices nor is it suitable or proper on and around the University campus where friendship should always be respectful and dignified. 20. Any offence described in Kenyan laws and Nairobi County bylaws which occurs in the University context and is not specifically described by another article in this Code is to be considered an offence under this Code, but only if it can reasonably be said to adversely affect the functioning of the University. 21.

will not be allowed to enter the University. Please note that the above list is not exhaustive. Students and their guests who violate the dress code will be prohibited by the guard(s) on duty from entering the campus. Lecturers will also automatically disallow such students inside the classrooms. Consistent violations will be subject to disciplinary action. **Hair** Hair should be clean, combed, and neatly trimmed or arranged. Unkempt hair is not permitted.

Sideburns, mustaches, and beards should be neatly trimmed. Patterned colored haircuts are not allowed.

**Hair colours not permitted on campus** - Blond, bronze, shades of yellow red and loud shades of red, platinum silver, copper, strawberry blond, purple, green, orange, white, silver grey, blue, Indigo, all neon colors and shades of pink, purple, green, orange and blue - Highlights that are not of natural hair color are not permitted: bleach blond and contrasting low-lights are not allowed **Permitted hair colors** - Natural hair colors: black, brown (light and dark) and grey, brown, any hue of

natural brown, honey, an even mix of gray hair and dark hair The hair colour chart serves to illustrate the permitted and non-permitted hair colours. The first nine hair colours from the top may be chosen and worn, while the last twenty-two colours are not allowed in the university. Students wearing an inappropriate hair colour will not be allowed to enter the University.

discouraged to use culture, ethnicity or religion to contravene the dress code. In this regard, students are not allowed: a. To dress in scanty clothing proper of certain cultural rituals b.

To wear sandals and open shoes (for men) unless there are proven medical reasons c. To wear face blinders that prevent identification or make it difficult since this may jeopardize the security of other students and the University in general ### Academic Offences The integrity of university academic life and of the degrees the university confers is dependent upon the honesty and soundness of the lecturer-student learning relationship and of the evaluation process.

Written or other work which students submit for assessment must be the product of their own efforts and must be consistent with appropriate standards of professional ethics. - A student has an obligation to exhibit honesty and to respect the ethical standards of the University in carrying out his or her academic work.

This academic integrity policy is designed to guide students as they progress through their chosen courses, prepare assignments, take examinations, and perform such other work necessary to complete their degree requirements (e.g. internships, practicals, projects, dissertations). **3. School Obligations** a.

A School member accepts an obligation, in relation to his or her students, to discharge his or her duties in a fair and conscientious manner in accordance with the ethical standards generally recognized within the academic community (as well as those of the profession). b.

Without limiting the application of the above principle, lecturers are expected (except in cases of illness or other compelling circumstance) to conduct themselves in a professional manner as stipulated in the Universities Guidelines, Policies and Procedures. **4. Institutional Obligations** - All members of the University have the obligation to serve as models of personal and professional integrity.

- The University, through its Communications Office, has the obligation to ensure clear communication of its mission, core values and standards to all lecturers, staff, administrators and students; and to foster an open discussion of standards of practice. - The University, through its Academic Council, has the obligation to provide measures of student progress in the form of grades, degrees, and honors.

Degrees and honors certify that a level of performance has been met in a student's demonstration of acquisition and use of knowledge, so it is imperative that grading be a fair, accurate and honest measure of a student's university experience. At the same time, lecturers need to devise strategies in the classroom to make learning, rather than receiving grades, the central focus.

- The University, through the Research Services Office, has to ensure that ethics governing research is understood, practiced and communicated to students and other researchers. This involves being clear and truthful about the ownership of research results and data, avoiding conflicts of interest (or disclosing them when they cannot be avoided), and making only honest and accurate claims in reporting research.

- Each of the various academic disciplines and fields of research represented at Strathmore has its own implicit and explicit standards for professional work. These are binding on lecturers, administration and staff, and must be communicated to students as part of their preparation to become professionals. - An environment of mutual trust and respect is necessary for the University to foster an environment of integrity.

To promote trust and respect in the University, the University has to ensure that lecturers treat the student's education and the student as ends rather than as a means to some end. Students at all levels must be encouraged to value their University experience as learning and personal growth, rather than solely as the means to a career goal.

- To promote a strong culture of academic integrity, students, lecturers and administrators are required to take an online tutorial and pass an online examination on academic integrity in their first semester (for students) or during the 6-month probation (for lecturers and administrators) at Strathmore and to affirm periodically that they understand the SU Academic Integrity Policy and will abide by it in all their academic work.

In addition, all students, lecturers and administrators are required to adhere to the Charter, Statutes, policies, procedures and set standards on Academic Integrity. **6.

Adjudication** - No member of the University should be subject to an adverse finding that he or she committed an offense related to academic integrity, and no penalty should be imposed relating thereto, except in accordance with the Statutes, Regulations, Policies and Procedures appropriate for disposition of the particular matter involved which should also include an appeal mechanism.

- This Regulation will be interpreted and implemented according to the Guidelines, Policies and Procedures of the University. ### Student Attendance Policy **Preamble** Strathmore University recognises that student success is promoted by regular attendance and participation in class. It is the sole responsibility of the student to ensure that they fulfil the attendance requirements for classes they are enrolled for. This policy applies to all modes of course delivery.

This policy has been developed as part of the University's overall Student Attendance & Engagement Strategy which aims to provide a supportive learning environment of which student attendance is one aspect of overall engagement.

The University needs to be able to monitor the attendance of students at timetabled teaching sessions for the following reasons: - To aid the retention of students by allowing early identification of those students at risk and allow timely interventions to be made in terms of academic and personal support - To comply with the requirements of the various Scholarship providers who require attendance confirmation returns to be made on a regular basis for those students who are in receipt of

financial support - To meet the demand placed on the University to report absences to employers, Professional Statutory Bodies, or other sponsors where they are funding/co-funding course fees - To comply with the security law of the Kenya Government that requires us to monitor the attendance accurately **Key Principles** a.

Students are active participants in their learning experiences and must take responsibility for achieving their potential through successful completion of each stage of their studies b. Monitoring attendance can provide an indication of student commitment, motivation and any difficulties which need to be addressed c. Regular attendance and academic achievement are closely linked.

Students who regularly attend classes are more likely to enjoy a rewarding experience in which core skills and abilities, such as team-working, are developed d. Attendance is a key component in student retention, progression and achievement e. Developing employability attributes - e.g.

workplace skills and professional ethos f. Faculties and Schools will ensure that effective mechanisms are in place to both identify students considered to be at risk and offer appropriate support and guidance **Student Responsibilities** a. Regular and punctual attendance of all timetabled learning/teaching sessions associated with their programme of study and ensuring they have their attendance recorded b. Notifying their School/Faculty Course Administrator/Faculty Manager in advance (e.g.

in person or email) that they expect to be absent from timetabled classes c. Notifying their School/Faculty Course Administrator/Faculty Manager in respect of any unplanned or unforeseen absences from classes as soon as practically possible d. For absences lasting more than 5 days, submit a proof of the reasons e.g.

identified to allow timely interventions to be made in terms of academic and personal support - Appropriate systems are in place at the Faculty/School level for students to provide notification of planned absences or report any unexpected absences - Data is reviewed for patterns of student non-attendance and where appropriate referring students to their Mentor for discussions on reasons for pattern - In the case of the absence of a member of teaching staff, students are informed at the earliest

opportunity of the alternative arrangements for the class **Student Fraud** - Students must only record themselves as present at a learning/teaching session. Where students are identified as having fraudulently recorded the attendance of another student in their absence, then both parties will be held liable in at the faculty disciplinary committee.

Participation in special academic events (e.g., conferences, field trips, project competitions, interviews) 4. Participation in official university business (e.g., student representatives attending meetings related to the university) 5. Documented serious illness or disability **Submission of Documentary Evidence** - Documentary evidence is required for any significant absence.

Documentary evidence should be submitted in person or sent via email to the Course Administrator/Faculty Manager - It is the responsibility of the student to go to the Faculty/School and request for the absence from lecturers form and attach all original documentation and submit it to the Course Administrator/Faculty Manager - Suitable types of medical documentation include: 1. A medical certificate 2. A medical report from an authorised doctor 3.

A note from a hospital **Exemption Applications Procedure** To apply for attendance exemptions, the applicant must: - Report the absence to the School Manager/Administrator - Send valid documentation supporting the reason for being absent - The School Manager/Administrator upon confirmation requests the Dean/Associate Dean to grant the attendance exemption **Reporting an Absence Case** - The Lecturer reports the student attendance case to the School Manager/Administrator immediately a student

misses a class - Once the School has confirmed an absence case, they should immediately trace the student via email or contacts provided - Write an email to the student notifying him/her of the need to explain the reason for being absent and where applicable attach relevant documentation - Where intervention is needed, the school should take up the case - Where there is need to involve the parents/guardians, the student should give consent and information privacy should be adhered **Absence due

- If the duration of the absence due to serious medical illness or mental health concern undermines the student's ability to complete the academic work required, the appropriate Course Administrator/Faculty Manager will encourage the student to pursue a Medical Leave of Absence - see policy on Academic Leave.

- It is an offence against honesty for a mentally healthy student to purport to have been mentally unwell sometime in the past so as to get an unauthorised absenteeism validated as authentic. Students caught attempting to cheat in this manner shall be disciplined. A student who is absent for more than 33% of class lectures and assessments without a valid reason will be excluded from the final examination in that subject.

The mission of the University can only be accomplished if every member of the University strives for personal and academic integrity. This disciplinary procedure aims to promote conducive and pleasant environment for quality teaching and learning, maintain good student relations within the University, encourage students to achieve and maintain the appropriate standards of human conduct that the University expects of all its members.

Every student must take responsibility for his conduct and must bear the responsibility for his misconduct whether this misconduct takes place in a group or as a member of a group. The goal of this procedure is to ensure fair and orderly proceeding on matters of possible student wrong doing. The University does not intend to shape the behavior of students by means of this code. The University student disciplinary proceeding is distinct and differs from the proceeding of a court of Law.

The students facing a disciplinary procedure do not abdicate their civil rights and remain free to exercise and claim those rights through the society's judicial institutions. However, the University is a private entity committed to a mission that imposes additional and special obligations, and at the same time grants privileges to its members. Student misconduct therefore may be simultaneously subject to external legal or administrative proceedings and the University's disciplinary system.

Under those circumstances, the University's disciplinary system normally will proceed independently notwithstanding the pendency of external processes. Furthermore, University disciplinary committees are not bound by external findings, adjudications or processes, and thus they make independent judgments about the extent to which (if at all) to consider such matters.

The University's disciplinary procedures therefore should not be confused with the processes of law: the University's regulations are applied to incidents that are not "cases," the bodies that hear and dispose on incidents are not "courts," individuals who may accompany a student in the course of a disciplinary proceeding are not "counsel" advocating on behalf of the student and scrutinizing procedures for compliance with "rules of evidence," and requests for review of disciplinary decisions are

not "appeals." As a leading illustration of the sense of this statement, it should be understood that the relation of collegiality and trust that binds all members of the University community entails an obligation of truthfulness and candor on the part of everyone who participates in a disciplinary proceeding.

An accused student, the accuser, and others must appear before a disciplinary committee if summoned and participate in a manner that helps the committee reach a complete and fair understanding of the facts of the incident at issue. ### Disciplinary Officers (a) The members of staff of the University listed below constitute the Disciplinary Officers.

With respect to matters coming within this Code, such Disciplinary Officers have only the powers, duties, and obligations expressly conferred upon them in this Section or in any other Section of the Code, as well as any powers reasonably incident thereto: - The Vice-Chancellor - The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic and Student Affairs) - The Principals of Colleges - Dean of Students - The Deans of the various Faculties, Schools and Institutes - The University Librarian - Head of Academic

Departments/Units - The Catering Manager - Games and Sports Officer - Faculty Managers and Faculty Administrators (b) Any Disciplinary Officer listed above may expressly deputize one or more members of his staff to be the Disciplinary Officer acting on his behalf. The name of the deputy shall be communicated in writing to the Dean of Students and such notice shall include the terms of deputization.

(c) In exceptional circumstances when the Disciplinary Officer has reasonable grounds to suppose that there is a high degree of physical danger in the student's presence on campus that cannot be alleviated or remedied by normal means, the Disciplinary Officer may exclude the student from campus for as long as reasonably required by the nature of the danger. However, within a reasonable period of time, the Disciplinary Officer must obtain the approval of the Student Disciplinary (SD) Committee.

If the exclusion is approved, the Dean of Students shall advise the excluded student of his right to a hearing and shall arrange for a hearing at the student's request within ten working days from the approval.

- Every member of the teaching staff who is in the process of giving instruction shall have like powers of exclusion on like grounds with respect to students under his instruction, except that such exclusion from the place of instruction shall not exceed the remainder of the class period - The chief or senior invigilator at an examination shall have like powers of exclusion over any student undergoing the examination when the chief or senior invigilator has reasonable grounds to believe that the

student is breaking, has broken, or is attempting to break a University or Faculty examination regulation. Such exclusion from the place of examination and its vicinity shall not exceed the remainder of the examination. - The Librarian shall have like powers of exclusion on the same grounds over students using the library. - Any action taken in virtue of sub-articles immediately above c, d, e, f, shall be forthwith reported to the Dean of Students.

- The designated Disciplinary Officers of Faculties, Schools, Institutes and Centers, have hearing powers as prescribed in the Strathmore University Statutes.

The responsible committee/hearing officers will consider the explanation and decide whether or not to reconvene the hearing/meeting, and whether or not to leave the suspension or probation in place pending the hearing. If the hearing is reconvened, it shall be considered the original hearing and shall not affect the right of appeal. Further sanctions may be imposed upon a student for refusing to appear or cooperate in that hearing.

### Compliance with and Successful Completion of Sanctions A student is responsible for compliance with and successful completion of all disciplinary sanctions imposed. Failure to do so may result in further disciplinary action. The person/responsible committee charged with monitoring the student's compliance with any sanction reserves the right to develop substitute sanctions when the student does not meet the conditions outlined in the sanction(s) previously imposed.

### Tampering with the Conduct Process Students should not take any adverse action against the complainant and/or the witnesses or threaten or intimidate the complainant and/or witnesses as result of their participation in any student conduct proceedings. If a student is found to have taken any adverse action against a complainant or witness, he/she may be subject to further disciplinary action. ### HEARING **Hearing Guidelines** - Conduct hearings are non-adversarial fact-finding proceedings.

It is the responsibility of the hearing committee/hearing officers to ask all relevant questions, to determine the admissibility and relevance of all materials, to render decisions based on the materials and to impose sanctions where appropriate. **Objectives of the Hearing** Requisite levels of due process and fairness will be provided to all participants during these procedures. The hearing shall have the following objectives: 1. Inform the student of the charges 2.

Give the accused student an opportunity to respond to the charges 3. Determine the facts of the case 4. Determine if any violations of the Student Disciplinary Policy were committed 5. Determine the disciplinary actions to be imposed based upon the facts, as determined at the hearing ### APPEALS A complainant's disagreement with the outcome. Appeals will be granted on substantive grounds as will be determined by the appellate office.

For student who appeared before the University Student Disciplinary Committee, the student concerned or the complainant may appeal to the Vice-Chancellor the decision of the Disciplinary Committee as it pertains to the substantiation of the charge, the disposition chosen, or both. The Vice-Chancellor may at his/her discretion appoint an Appeals Committee consisting of three members of Academic Staff to hear the appeal.

A student wishing to appeal must notify the Dean of Students of the intention to do so within 14 days of receiving official notice of the Disciplinary Committee's decision. The notice of appeal must be accompanied by a concise written statement that identifies precisely the grounds upon which the appeal is based. No suspension, dismissal or expulsion ordered by Disciplinary Committee shall take effect until the appeal is decided.

However, if the appeal is denied, dismissal or expulsion is retroactive to the date of the original decision, and the suspension shall take effect from the date of the Appeal Committee's decision. If the Appeal Committee upholds the decision of the Disciplinary Committee the matter shall be closed and such decision shall be considered final. ## SOME PUNISHABLE NON-ACADEMIC OFFENCES AND PENALTIES | No.

| Offence | Penalty | |-----|---------|---------| | 1 | **Disruption**<br>(a) No student shall, by action, threat, or otherwise, knowingly obstruct University activities.<br>University activities include but are not limited to, lectures, research, meetings, interviews, public events, ceremonies.<br>(b) Disruption which occurs during the teaching of a class or course or the conduct of research may be treated as an academic offence under the provisions of Article 3.5.

| Minimum suspension for two weeks and a warning letter. The penalty may be severe depending on the gravity of the offence. | | 2 | **Unauthorized Entry and/or Presence**<br>(a) No student shall, contrary to express instructions or with intent to damage, destroy or steal University property or without just cause knowingly enter or remain in any University building, facility, room, or office. Facilities include but are not limited to the following: parking lots, sports fields and campus areas.

| Minimum suspension for two weeks and a warning letter. The penalty may be severe depending on the gravity of the offence. No matter the suspension length the student shall be required to pay for the damage caused in full.

university either directly or indirectly or through false documents or otherwise. | Suspension for one year, pay for/return the damaged property and warning letter. The penalty may be more severe depending on the gravity of the offence.

| | 4 | **Physical Abuses, Harassment and Dangerous Activity**<br>No student shall on property owned or occupied by the University, or in a University context:<br>(a) Assault another person, including sexual assault, threaten any other person with bodily harm or damage to such person's property or knowingly, and without just cause, cause any other person to fear bodily harm or fear damage to his or her property | Suspension for one year and a warning letter.

| | 4 (cont.) | (e) Distribute, dispense, possess or use controlled substances such as drugs or alcohol on campus, or as part of any University activity. | Expulsion. | | 4 (cont.) | (f) Possess or use or store weapons that might threaten the life of another member of the University community. | Expulsion. | | 4 (cont.) | (g) Possess pornographic material or be found surfing immoral websites or any other kind of material that is offensive to the dignity of other members of the University.

| Suspension for one semester and a warning letter or expulsion depending on how serious the situation is and a warning letter. | | 4 (cont.) | (h) Smoking tobacco is prohibited in lecture halls, classrooms, corridors and enclosed rooms. | Suspension for two weeks and a warning letter.

| | 5 | **Possession of Stolen Property**<br>No student, knowing the property to have been stolen, shall possess University property or possess on University premises any property stolen from any other member of the University community. | Suspension for one academic year, return the stolen property and a warning letter.

facts for the purpose of damaging the reputation of a member of the community. | Suspension from university and a warning letter. Depending on the severity of the fraud the accused may be expelled from the university. | | 7 | **Misuse of University Supplies or Documents, Forgery**<br>No student shall forge or, without authority, knowingly alter, use, receive, or possess University supplies or documents.

University supplies and documents include, but are not limited to, equipment, keys, records, certificates, testimonials, stationery and files. | Suspension for one academic year and a warning letter or expulsion depending on the severity of the situation and a warning letter.

| | 8 | **Information offenses**<br>No student shall defame any member of the university or society (through the publication or utterance of statements that lower that person in the estimation of right-thinking members of society or which makes them shun or avoid that person).

Such offences may be in the following formats:<br>- Statements in published or printed format such as book, newspaper, website, magazine (libel).<br>- Statements uttered verbally (slander)<br>No student shall present to a university officer a forged document either in hard copy or electronically, examples of such documents are and not limited to: secondary school-leaving certificate, other institutions academic certificates, national government documents etc.

and imminent danger, which incite others to behavior, which violates any article of this Section. | Suspension for one academic year and a warning letter. The persons involved may be expelled from university depending on the degree of danger involved.

| | 10 | **Class attendance and punctuality**<br>It shall be an offence for a student:<br>(a) To attend a course for which he/she has not enrolled and/or paid requisite fees, unless the faculty has issued express permission to the student to do so.<br>(b) When absent from class to arrange for another student to sign the attendance register on his/her behalf.<br>(c) To miss classes without permission. | a. Warning letter and pay a fine of Ksh 10,000/=.<br>b.

The lecturer may decide to handle the matter in class or;<br>c. Pass it on to the faculty dean for determination. | | 11 | **Commission of offences more than once**<br>If a student commits an offence more than once where in the first instance a warning letter was issued. | Expulsion from the University | ## SOME PUNISHABLE ACADEMIC OFFENCES AND PENALTIES | Offence | Penalty | |---------|---------| | 1. Possession of unauthorized material e.g.

Suspend candidate(s) involved from the University for one academic year. Proceed to the subsequent year of study on readmission. PROVIDED THAT the other candidate will only be penalised if it is proved that the copying was made possible because of his or her consent, collusion, or reasonable knowledge. | | 7. Possession of used or unused examination answer book(s) in the examination venue other than the material issued by the invigilator.

Contribute towards the promotion of a bright and cheerful corporate-family atmosphere in the University; b. Promote a conducive and pleasant environment for quality teaching and learning; and c. Maintain good relations and mutual understanding among fellow students and among students and staff, within the University.

The procedure for sexual harassment complaints has been outlined in the Sexual Harassment Policy which is available on the intranet; - In disclosure of information. The procedure for disclosure of information has been outlined in the Policy and Procedures on Disclosure which is available on the intranet.

## UNIVERSITY EXAMINATION REGULATIONS ### Examination regulations for CPA and ACCA and other external examinations All students are required to do all assignments and sit all tests during the course prior to sitting for external examinations. ### Examination regulations and procedures for University degree and diploma courses **1.

Eligibility to sit Final Examinations** In order to be eligible to sit a final (end of semester) University examination in a course unit, a candidate must: - Be a registered student in the Faculty in which the course unit is being examined. - Have attended two-thirds of the Classes - Cleared fees in full 7 days to the start of the examinations. **2. Continuous Assessment Tests (CATS)** a) If a student misses a CAT or quiz, he or she must notify the faculty in writing and attach evidence e.g.

- in case of a doctor's appointment/visit, the student should provide a sick sheet from the doctor - in matters related to attending the various clubs and sports activities recognized by the University, the student should seek clearance from the Dean of students prior to attending the activity. b) If the above procedure is not followed, it will be assumed that the student has failed the CAT or the quiz in question and hence forfeit the marks.

c) There are special answer sheets to be used in CATs and students should not carry books, papers and other personal belongings to the exam venue. The answer sheets should be used strictly for this purpose and any unused sheet should be returned to the examinations office. Students should not walk out with unused answer sheets at the end of the CAT. **3.

Examinations Timetable** Students shall be informed of the examination timetable no less than two weeks before the examinations are scheduled to begin. All students should produce their examination card and university ID as they enter the examination venue. **4. Retake Examinations** There will be no period set for the retake examinations; instead, candidates will sit their examinations when the unit(s) in question is (are) offered.

Candidates shall apply to the Registrar (Academic) for special ordinary examination before the date of the examination. Such candidates will retake the exam at a suitable time when the unit(s) is (are) next offered and earn full marks.

- The candidate's medical or dental practitioner recognised by the University will provide the University with a medical/dental assessment indicating: I) Period of impairment affecting examination preparation within the semester; ii) Period of impairment at the time of the examination, which may be described as nil, minor, severe or unfit It is imperative that: - All necessary medical evidence is obtained from the relevant authority and that any additional information is included so that as much

documentation as possible is lodged at the same time. - The medical evidence must relate to a visit to the practitioner no later than the day of the examination or assessment. Note that medical report(s) will not be acknowledged retrospectively. - Only the original medical report certified by the practitioner, or a certified copy, is/will be acceptable. A candidate who fails in any special ordinary examinations shall retake the examination in the failed unit(s) when the unit is next offered.

c) No candidate shall be permitted to repeat any unit more than once on academic grounds. **8. Discontinuation** A candidate who repeats and fails more than half the number of units in any year of study shall be discontinued from the programme by Registrar (Academic Affairs). **9.

Appeal for Reassessment** A candidate who is not satisfied with the grade which he/she has been awarded in any unit may appeal to the Registrar (Academic Affairs) for a re-marking of the written examination paper in that unit on payment of the appropriate fee, which the Academic Council shall determine from time to time. The grade and mark recommended by the examiner(s) after remarking shall be the final grade and mark awarded to the candidate for the unit.

No appeal for re-marking of any unit shall be entertained in cases where the appeal has been submitted later than 14 working days inclusive of Saturday and Sunday after the candidate has been notified of the result. **10. Community-based and industrial Attachment** All undergraduate students must successfully complete their community-based attachment, in order for them to graduate.

Candidates will take their personal belongings and leave all examination materials on their desk. The invigilators will collect the examination materials as soon as an appropriate authority has declared the venue safe. The invigilators will account for the examination booklets as soon as possible.

In the case of both power outage and threat to safety, if the disruption occurs after three-quarters of the examination period has lapsed, the internal examiner will mark the students' scripts and award marks appropriately; otherwise the examination will be rescheduled. The internal examiner will write a report to the Dean explaining how the marking and grading was done.

**Communication** The invigilators should write a report to the Examinations Manager and the Dean explaining the disruption and the outcome. This should be done within 24 hours. In the event that an examination disruption leads to re-scheduling of the examination, the students will get information regarding the re-scheduling through the Registrar's Office. ## GRADUATION POLICY GUIDELINES ### Conditions of Entry to Graduation 1.

Potential Graduands will be registered for Graduation in the name that is recorded on the Students' University Record at the time the award decision was made by the Academic Council. The Certificate will bear the registered name of the Graduand and shall not be changed once the period for confirmation of records stated hereunder has lapsed. 5.

**Opening hours:** - Monday to Friday: 7.30 am to 9 pm - Saturday: 8.00 am to 7.30 pm - Sundays from 1.00pm to 6.00pm - Remains closed on Public Holidays.

**About the library** Three libraries: - Main Library - Anjawalla and Khan Library - Business School **The information collection** The library collection consists of: - Core texts (Textbooks) - Reference Collection (Biographies, bibliographies, dictionaries, encyclopedias, prospectuses, catalogues, annual reports etc) - Spiritual collection - Leisure reading (novels) - Special collections (Government publications, UN publications) - Journals i) Hard copies (Daily Nation, East African Standard,

East African, Weekly Telegraph, Economist, Harvard Business Review etc) ii) Electronic databases with thousands of e-journals - Theses - Audio-visual collections.

**Services offered** - Reading space - Borrowing and lending (long loans and short loans) - Special collections - Electronic journals - Audio-visual collection - Reservation - Information Service (reference desk, intranet library folder, & library notice boards) - Searching (OPAC - Online Public Access Catalogue, CD-ROM & Internet) - Printing and photocopying services ### LIBRARY ONLINE PUBLIC ACCESS CATALOGUE (OPAC) This can be found at http://sagana/ or http://yala/library ### LIBRARY RULES

AND REGULATIONS Library rules and regulations should be followed to enable fair access and use of library facilities by all users. Failure to do so will result in the withdrawal of library rights, suspension of library rights, or suspension from the university. 1) Students will be issued with a library card at the Admissions office. If the card is lost, PLEASE REPORT IMMEDIATELY. A replacement will be available at a fee. 2) Library items should not be taken out without proper authorization.

Theft or attempted theft of Library items, equipment, furniture or furnishings is proscribed. 3) All communication gadgets including call phones, pagers, radios, beepers etc should be switched off before entering the library. No call should be made or received in the library. 4) All bags, brief cases, over-coats, etc should be left at the baggage store at the library entrance. 5) The library is a place for silent, private study.

Consultations, discussions, group study etc should not be held in the library. The university provides many other areas for this. 6) Smoking and sleeping are not allowed in the library. 7) Food and drinks should not be taken to the library. 8) Books shall not be marked in any way e.g. by underlining, writing, ticking etc. 9) Respect the borrowing guidelines for various categories of books. 10) Reference books and items in the special collections should not be taken out of the library.

NB: - Users are encouraged to be vigilant and to report other library users that are breaking library rules to any library staff member. - Report any items in short supply such as books to the staff at the issue desk. - Communication to users is through email, and notice boards, continuous user education, and point of service areas. ### SOME PUNISHABLE LIBRARY OFFENCES AND PENALTIES | Offence | Fine/Penalty for students | |---------|---------------------------| | 1.

Obtaining or using a Library card under false pretences | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of one academic year. | | 4. Violating a suspension that is in effect | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of one academic year on top of the current suspension. | | 5. Smoking, eating or drinking in Library buildings (including stairwells and decks), sleeping in the library | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 semester. | | 6.

Use of computers in a manner contravening University Regulations | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 semester. | | 7. Rudeness to library staff, including university security | The case will be heard by the university librarian/deputy, who will determine whether it should proceed and be heard at the student disciplinary committee. | | 8.

Use of communication devices including cell phones, pagers, beepers radios, walkie talkies, etc | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 semester. | | 9. Noise making, discussions, consultations in the reading areas, staircases and cloak rooms | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 semester. | | 10. Contravention of intellectual property stipulations of the University such as photocopying limits | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 semester.

| | 11. Bringing unauthorized items such as overcoats, big bags, campus bags, briefcases, etc | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 month | | 12. Behavior which adversely impacts on other individuals' use or access to Library facilities and resources | Suspension from the Library for a maximum period of 1 semester. | | 13. Possession of items from other libraries that are either overdue or have evidence of having been removed without proper authorization.

| The item will be confiscated, awaiting consultations with the concerned library. | 1. The above list and table is in no way exhaustive. 2. In cases of grave breach of discipline, the matter shall be referred to the Students Disciplinary committee. 3. Students are required to familiarize themselves with University disciplinary and grievances procedures.

## COMPUTER LABS Care should be taken in the use of computer equipment and any breakage or problem should be reported immediately to the Lecturer or lab assistant. There should be no eating, drinking or smoking in the Labs. 1. Computer Games should not be played in the Labs, either during lectures or at any other time. Listening to music is not allowed. 2. When leaving the Lab, the computers and printers should be switched off and the room should be left in order.

Some types of applications use a lot of bandwidth and this will badly affect the quality of the connection of other users. Hence: - Users should not access sites or applications that take up large amounts of bandwidth, such as streaming radio, TV or video. - Downloading of large documents or files is seriously discouraged. If you need to download large documents/files, please inform the Network Administrator who can schedule it for you over periods when the service is not in use.

- Please save downloaded files on flash disks rather than leave them on the hard disk of the PC you are using. - Students should not give their account details to anybody else; otherwise they will forfeit their Internet access. ## CHAPLAINCY All students are welcome to use the University Chapel. It should be kept in mind that the Chapel is a place of prayer and should be used for that purpose, respecting the holiness of the place and the recollection of others.

You are requested to observe silence in the area near the chapel. The University Chaplain and his Assistant run the activities of the Chaplaincy, which include: - Daily Mass: at 07:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. in the University Chapel, Monday to Friday and 10:30 a.m. on Saturdays in the University Chapel. - Confessions: A detailed Confessions timetable is posted on the Chaplaincy noticeboard.

- Benediction and Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament at 1:45 p.m. on Thursdays - Chaplains Talk from 1:40 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. for men on Wednesdays and for women on Mondays from 1:15 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. - Benediction and Adoration of the Blessed Sacrament from 1:00 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. on the first Friday of each month.

Students can visit the chaplaincy website for discussions and information about their faith: (http://athi/chaplaincy) This site has been developed to enable students in the University to have access to information about their Christian faith. Details of other Chaplaincy activities are posted on the Chaplaincy notice board. The Chaplain and his Assistant are available in their offices for consultation. An appointment may be made with either of them directly.

Some books for prayer and spiritual reading are available for use in the Chapel from the cupboard at the entrance. These books may be used only in the chapel and should not be taken out of the Chapel. The rooms in the Chapel basement may be used only with the permission of the Chaplain. Any suggestions regarding Chaplaincy activities are welcome but should first be discussed with the Chaplain.

Community service, student government, student organizations, cultural activities and athletics all provide students with opportunities to develop their talents and abilities, as they prepare to assume positions of leadership within their communities and the world. Our institution underscores the holistic development of students. In the face of the complexities and challenges of a technologically-driven, global society, the University prepares you in the various aspects of academic life.

Be ready then, to learn from the diversity of people and ideas around you. Our faculty members will immerse you in innovative and pioneering research undertakings. Your peers will engage you in various creative, athletic, and other non-academic endeavors. Members of communities outside the campus will open your eyes to the realities and challenges in our society.

Through our international academic linkages and various industry partnerships, you will be exposed to the latest developments in your respective fields. Student Affairs is organized into a number of integrated but specific sections: Career Services, Foreign Students Advising, Sports section, Student Club Activities Section, Mentoring and Counseling Section, Health Care Section and Community Outreach Section.

The Careers Development Office seeks to complement the academic mission of the University by educating and empowering you to take ownership of your professional development as a lifelong learner and to function successfully in a global society. Furthermore, we also provide programmes and services that create opportunities for employers, students, lecturers, and staff to engage in mutually beneficial partnerships that meet the needs of an evolving workforce.

Additionally, we want all of our students to graduate with the six basic career competencies listed below: - Communication Skills - Critical Thinking Skills - Interpersonal Skills - Leadership Skills - Self Management Skills - Technical skills You might be wondering how exactly we as the Careers Development Services assist students? We: 1. Evaluate students Curriculum Vitae (CVs) and help them identify areas that need amendments to market themselves better to potential employers. 2.

3. Facilitate mock job interviews for students to practice their interview skills. 4. Organize the annual Career Fair which is held on the 1st Friday of February with over 50 companies participating and 1000 plus students attending. The fair is an opportunity for the students to meet with industry players in a forum where they can interact freely and find out more about companies they might like to work for. 5.

Organize Faculty Career days, where a specific organization or Career field takes center stage and the students interested in that particular field can learn more. 6. Organize workshops and talks on life skills like Networking, personal branding, Financial Literacy, communication skills etc. 7. Offer information on recommended reading, psychometric tests as well as job openings is posted on the Careers Development Services notice board, Facebook page and tweeter.

Visit our webpage: http://careers.strathmore.edu/ Facebook: Strathmore University Career Development Services ## STUDENT MENTORING SERVICES Personal meetings are an integral part of the education system of the University. All full-time course students have a personal adviser who will call the student regularly for a personal and confidential meeting. Should a student wish to see his/her Mentor at any time, he/she should feel free to do so.

The purpose of these meetings is to help guide each student in his/her academic work, helping the student make the best use of his/her abilities and of the facilities offered, managing study time etc. Students should feel free to bring up any matter, which concerns them, in the meeting, even if the matter is not strictly academic. All matters discussed in the meetings are confidential.

If his/her Mentor has not called a student for a long time, he/she may report the matter to the Head of the Student Mentoring System. More can be found at https://strathmore.edu/mentoring-at-strathmore/ ## INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS You are very welcome to Kenya and particularly to Strathmore University. All international students need a Student's Pass to study in Kenya; this document is granted by the Ministry of Immigration of Kenya in Nairobi.

Therefore, upon arrival at Strathmore at the beginning of your course, please get in touch with the International Students Office at the Dean of Students Department for assistance on how to get a Student's pass. ### Student's Pass This is a document issued to person(s) seeking to enter and remain in Kenya for the purpose of receiving education or training at an educational or training establishment within the country by which he/she has been accepted as a student/pupil.

For us to initiate the application for you, send us via email (studentpass@strathmore.edu) or post the above nine (9) documents. Then, upon arrival in Kenya we will take you for a face-to-face interview with the Immigration officers to finalise the application process. Delaying your Student Pass application could result in you being deported from Kenya. Should you have any queries please contact us on studentpass@strathmore.edu Karibu Kenya!

and looking forward to sharing the Strathmore experience with you. ### Extension of Visa All international students need to note that they need a Kenyan Visa to travel to Kenya for studies, therefore if the Visa expires before the pupil's pass is processed, the student is required to renew the visa at the Immigration Department.

In order to ensure that students are adequately represented at all levels, in addition to the students who form part of the Strathmore Student Council, there are two student representatives (one male and one female) for each class, who regularly meet with their Head of Department, or, where appropriate, the representatives of various classes with the Dean of their Faculty, in order to discuss their concerns and suggestions.

### Clubs The University offers a variety of co-curricular activities aimed at providing the student with an opportunity for personal development and the opportunity to socialise. We boast an array of clubs that serve different interests from Performing arts, Languages, Human Resource to Entrepreneurship and so on.

Below is a list of some of the Clubs in SU: **Leadership, Public Speaking** - AIESEC - For those seeking to develop leadership skills and manage projects - Debate Club - ideal to help you develop your presentation and communication skills as well as learn how to think and solve problems logically - KMUN - For those interested in diplomacy - SHREC - Our HR club gives you an opportunity to interact with HR practitioners and learn teamwork **For the Arts and most things creative** - DRAMSOC - For

students interested in drama and play production - The Band - If you have always wanted to be in a band, here is your chance!

- SUMG - The Strathmore media club, where creativity and journalism skills are nurtured - Strathmore Chorale - For those interested in nurturing their singing talent - The Culture & Heritage Club - For those who appreciate and wish to practice contemporary art **Business, Finance and Entrepreneurship** - SASS - A club for the Actuarial student - SBC - Our business club that will help the entrepreneur in you to thrive - ENACTUS - Encourages students to embrace entrepreneurship - SMS - For

students who want to hone their marketing skills and knowledge - SUFFESA - The club for the Finance and Financial Economic students **Languages** - Deutsch club, les francophones de strathmore and japanese club - for those studying or interested in the German, French and Japanese cultures and languages respectively - EL CLUB!

- For students who want to learn more about the Spanish culture - Chinese Club - For students who want to learn more about Chinese culture **Hospitality and IT** - HATSS - A club that caters for the Hospitality and Tourism Students interest in their industry - SUITSA - A club for students who wish to hone as well as share their IT skills and knowledge with others Want to know more? Visit the Club and Societies Office, 3rd Floor, Student Centre.

### Sports Strathmore is well known for its trophy-winning sports teams, which include the Archery team, Blades (men's basketball team), Swords (Ladies basketball team), Gladiators (Men's Hockey team), Scorpions (Women's Hockey team), Strathmore F.C (Men's football team), and Strathmore Leos (Men's Rugby team), the handball team, Karate team and others. The sports teams and clubs provide an opportunity for each student to discover and develop their talents in sports, acting or leadership skills.

Each club has a mandate and the members of the club ensure that it achieves its objective and continues to remain vibrant and attract new members. It is a great opportunity to know yourself and improve on your strengths. Relating with others, learning how to solve conflicts in a civilized manner, learning to respect other points of view are all things that one has to experience for themselves, and the clubs provide that opportunity. Want to know more?

Visit the Sports Services Office, 3rd Floor, Student Centre. ### Dress during sports Students participating in sports are expected to be appropriately dressed: boots or sneakers, shorts or track suits, t-shirts, bikers. ### General behaviour during sports 1. Students are expected to behave in a respectful manner while on training and on official sports trips, whether as players or spectators. 2. During a match any complaints should be channeled to the referee/umpire through the team captain. 3.

No drugs, alcohol or any other form of intoxicants should be consumed before, at or after matches or during training. 4. Students are expected to avoid instances of abusive shouting, offensive language, stone throwing, physical confrontation, disrespectful arguing, either with the referee/umpire, fellow players or opponents, at all times during sports events whether as players or spectators. 5.

Any suggestions related to sports should be made to the Dean of Students, through the sports administrator, the coaches, the student sports representatives or the captains. ## GENERAL INFORMATION ### SECURITY Security officers are assigned to various parts of the University. However, security is the responsibility of all members of the University community; we therefore ask you to co-operate with the security team at all times to ensure a safer campus.

The University requires its students and staff to wear their Strathmore University ID at all times while in the University. The ID policy enables Strathmore to enforce better campus security, which is a pressing need because the University remains open to guests, and its student population is growing considerably. The officers have to be alert at their posts; please do not request them to do other things for you (e.g. leaving your belongings with them).

Should you witness any issue that threatens University safety and security please report it to any University security officer or staff nearby. ### HEALTH SERVICES **Strathmore University Medical Centre** The Strathmore University Medical center is located on Strathmore University's Keri Campus. We strive to fulfill one of the university's mandates of "service to society" by providing excellent and quality healthcare to all patients. The practice offers diverse medical care for patients.

Our services include Primary care, mental wellness clinic, dental care, gynecology clinic, Physiotherapy, diabetes and hypertension clinic, ENT services, laboratory services, pharmacy, pediatric and maternal wellness clinic, vaccinations/travel medicine center, imaging and ultrasound. Our services are open to all students, staff and the general public.

Students can access the clinic services using their medical cover which is as follows: - 10,000 per academic year for full time students pursuing an undergraduate degree - 3,500 per academic year for students pursuing a diploma/evening students. Students are expected to copay 250 per visit - 2,000 per academic year for students pursuing CPA/ACCA.

Students are expected to copay 250 per visit Students can also send their bill to their school fees, pay in cash/mpesa and supplementary medical insurance covers that the staff and the general public can also use. The medical insurance covers accepted include Sedgwick, Jubilee, UAP, Heritage, GA Insurance and Sanlam. We are open every weekday from 7:30 am to 7:30 pm and on Saturday from 8:30 am-2:30 pm.

**Mental health** We have a team of experienced counselors who have the expertise to manage stress, anxiety, depression, addictions, how to handle peer pressure and social media influence, post-traumatic stress and carry out group and family therapy to both our students and patients. The mental health protocol is accessible on the university intranet portal.

Our mental health specialists can be reached on call through +254 724 255 169 ### UNIVERSITY BUSES - Bus transport to town is for evening students and they are required to queue for the bus and behave in an orderly manner. Any instructions given by the Bus Conductor should be followed. - On each bus, four seats are reserved for Lecturers. Should any Lecturer be standing, students should offer him/her a seat. - Standing passengers should not crowd near the door.

- A student who does not follow these rules may be prevented from using the University transport facilities for the remainder of the semester. ### GOOD MANNERS - After using the toilet, make sure it is left clean and tidy. The person using it after you will be most grateful. - When making field trips or any kind of educational outings, be attentive, courteous and friendly to lecturers, drivers and all persons you come in contact with.

Students are expected to behave in a respectful manner during the trips. Students are asked not to bring any alcohol with them on trips. - Respect the order of queues. - Give way and hold doors for others. - Always stand and walk on the left side of corridors and stair-cases. - If a visitor appears to be lost, offer him/her your assistance. - Offer a helping hand to University Staff whenever it is needed. - Greet and address people politely.

- At the end of each class, make sure that chalkboards are properly erased, open windows and doors to ventilate the room, align desks and chairs properly, and see to it that the room is free of litter. - When students wish to ask a question they should raise their hand and ask their question in turn as the Lecturer requests. ### IMPORTANT THINGS WORTH NOTING - There are Suggestions Boxes around campus. All suggestions should be signed and the person's name given in full.

Unsigned suggestions will not be considered. - A First Aid Box containing basic medicines for urgent needs is kept in every department of the University. ### CAFETERIAS - Waridi Cafeteria (Central building and Student Centre) - Strathmore Cafeteria (Student Centre ground floor) - Food court (Student Centre first floor) **Hours**: Monday to Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 p.m. Saturday: 8:00 am to 2:00 p.m. Payment slip should be given to the attendant who will supply the items paid for.

Order and courtesy should be practiced in the Cafeteria; queuing should be orderly, used cups, plates etc should be returned to the counter, litter placed in the bins provided, chairs left straight etc. If any student behaves in a disorderly manner in the Cafeteria, he/she may be barred from using it. Any breakages to utensils in the Cafeteria will be charged accordingly. Any suggestions or complaints related to the Cafeteria can be made to the Cafeteria Managers.

### LOST PROPERTY While every effort will be made to keep safe any item found, students are reminded that the University cannot take responsibility for any item lost or misplaced in the University. Students should take care of their belongings and not leave them unattended or lying around in the University. Any item found in the University should be left at the Help Desk. If someone has lost anything in the University, he/she should enquire at the Help Desk.

The Dean of Students will dispose of unclaimed items at the end of each semester. ### NOTICE BOARDS Notice boards are placed in the main foyer and in each School. Students should check the boards for announcements concerning lectures, changes of timetable, activities etc. If someone wishes to post a notice on a notice board, the Director of the School or Department should be consulted, for departmental notice-boards and the Dean of Students, if the notice is to be put on other boards.

Students are asked not to disfigure the notices in any way. ## 60 THINGS TO DO AT STRATHMORE UNIVERSITY BEFORE YOU GRADUATE 1. Learn a new language 2. Give your parent or guardian a tour of the university 3. Trick someone on April 1st 4. Order a menu you don't understand 5. Send a text and then regret 6. Confuse MSB 14 for LT4 and do the long walk 7. Try out for a university sports team 8. Play for Kenya in any sport 9. Win an election 10.

Score 25 out of 30 in a CAT only to find out that you are the lowest 11. Hi-five your Dean and then pretend it was by mistake 12. Get a headache in class 13. Buy ice cream to celebrate 14. Join a student club 15. Befriend a person who consistently scores more than you 16. Complain about the weather 17. Wear flip-flops in the rain 18. Regret sitting in the front row 19. Forget the password of your assignment 20. Get to use your Strathmore email account 21. Get to know your mentor 22.

Take on your number one fear and conquer it 23. Ask him/her to tell you his/her life story 24. Write an article for the university website 25. Appear in the university social media sites 26. Boost your GPA 27. Eat the same menu for 5 straight days 28. Bet and win a free lunch 29. Attend a guest lecture 30. Lose all your friends and try to find new ones 31. Admit when you don't know something 32. Read a book that has nothing to do with your course work 33. Represent your class at Sports Day 34.

Give your time for charity either under CBA or COP 35. Discover you are attending the wrong class after half an hour 36. Sit in the library from when it opens till closure 37. Watch your classmates play for the University at a league game 38. Know the names of half of your classmates 39. Know the name of your Faculty Dean 40. Attend a career fair 41. Meet with a Careers Services staff and discuss your future career plans 42. Attend a networking session organised by a club/society 43.

Prepare your CV 44. Successfully stop a bad habit 45. Go through a week without complaining 46. Every semester make sure you know all your lecturers by name 47. Keep fit 48. Eat at Pate caf 49. Say r do 10 positive things per day 50. Do someone a big favour 51. Have a hair-do you don't like for friendship sake 52. Contribute an idea at group discussion 53. Remember to say "Thank you" 54. Know how to cook at least one simple meal 55. Board the university bus for the ride 56.

Enter a lift and ask where it's going 57. Know how the name Strathmore came about 58. Know the history of Strathmore University 59. Find a job 60. Graduate

